The Project Gutenberg eBook of The botanist's repository for new and rare plants; vol. 8 [of 10]

This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The botanist's repository for new and rare plants; vol. 8 [of 10]

Author: active 1799-1828 Henry Cranke Andrews

Release date: April 14, 2024 [eBook #73396]

Language: English

Original publication: London: The author, 1797

Credits: Chuck Greif and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by Biodiversity Heritage Library.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BOTANIST'S REPOSITORY FOR NEW AND RARE PLANTS; VOL. 8 [OF 10] ***





                              _Vol. VIII.
                                of the_

                         Botanists Repository

                             _Comprising,
                         Colour’d Engravings_

                                  of

                         _New and Rare Plants_

                                 ONLY

                   with Botanical Descriptions _&c._

                                  _in
                          Latin and English,
                              after the_

                            Linnæan System.

                                  _by
                              H. Andrews
                    Botanical Painter Engraver &c._

                            [Illustration]

                         Mo. Botanical Garden




PLATE CCCCXCIII.

BIGNONIA GRANDIFLORA.

_Large-lowered Bignonia._


CLASS XIV. ORDER II.

_DIDYNAMIA ANGIOSPERMIA._ Two Chives longer. Seeds covered.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 5-fidus, cyathiformis.

     COROLLA fauce campanulata, 5-fida, subtus ventricosa. Siliqua
     bilocularis.

     SEMINA membranacea, alata.

     EMPALEMENT 5-cleft, cup-shaped.

     BLOSSOM bell-shaped at the mouth, 5-cleft, and bellied beneath. A
     pod of two cells.

     SEEDS winged, with a skinny membrane.

     See Bignonia Leucoxylon, Pl. XLIII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     BIGNONIA foliis pinnatis: foliolis oblongo-lanceolatis, serratis:
     floribus in paniculo terminali, vel potius in racemo e pedunculis
     trifloris, oppositis, alternatis: corollis magnis, coccineis,
     campanulatis: caule erecto, radicante, et scandente.

     BIGNONIA with winged leaves: leaflets of an oblong lance-shape, and
     sawed: flowers grow in a terminating panicle, or rather in a raceme
     upon footstalks with three flowers, opposite and alternate: blossom
     large, of a scarlet colour, and bell-shaped: stem upright, rooting,
     and climbing.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. A blossom spread open.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal.


This superb Bignonia is well characterized by the specific appellation
of grandiflora; and although, in several genera, this title has been
rendered nugatory by the introduction afterwards of still larger
flowering species, yet we think it is not likely to be the case in the
present instance. In Kæmpfer’s Icones there is a tolerably good figure
of this fine plant. It flowers in the autumn, and great hopes are
entertained that it will ultimately prove to be of a hardy character,
when a fair trial of it is made, with its scarcity has hitherto
prevented.

Our figure was made from a plant seven feet high, in the conservatory of
G. Hibbert, esq. where, under the care of Mr. Knight, his botanic
gardener, that valuable collection is in the most luxuriant state of
cultivation.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXCIV.

SCUTELLARIA SERRATA.

_Sawed-leaved Scutellaria._


CLASS XIV. ORDER I.

_DIDYNAMIA GYMNOSPERMIA._ Two Chives longer. Seeds naked.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Os calycis, ad perfectionem seminum post florescentiam,
     claudit, quasi cum operculo tectum.

     EMPALEMENT. The mouth of the cup, to perfect the seed after
     flowering, shuts as if covered by a lid.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     SCUTELLARIA foliis oppositis, ovato-acuminatis, serratis: floribus
     ramos terminantibus in spicâ laxâ cæruleo-purpureâ: caule erecto,
     quadrato.

     Habitat in Carolina et Florida.

     SCUTELLARIA with opposite leaves ovately-pointed, and sawed:
     flowers terminate the branches in a loose spike of a blue purple
     colour: stem upright, and four-sided.

     Native of Carolina and Florida.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. The same as it appears after flowering.
    3. The flower spread open, one of the tips magnified.
    4. Seed-bud and pointal.


This Scutellaria is one amongst the number of those new plants brought
from America by Mr. Lyons, very few of which have (we think) proved more
attractive than the present subject. The fine purply blue of its flowers
is of all colours the most difficult for any effort of art to do justice
to. There are seventeen species of this genus enumerated by Willdenow;
and fifteen of them are serrate, one hastate, and the other (which is
called integrifolia) we are inclined to think is intended to
characterize our plant; as, notwithstanding it is called entire-leaved,
it is described as obsoletely serrate, and agrees very well in other
particulars with our species. We have adopted the unoccupied specific
title of serrata, although it is a character common to almost all the
genus, in preference to one that could not, if strictly attended to,
ever lead us to the object. The genera that approach nearest to
Scutellaria are Trichostema on one side, and Prunella on the other; from
which, and many others that surround it, the most essential distinction
is in the singular construction and character of the calyx, which forms
its short but well-marked essential generic character. Our figure was
made from a plant in the open border of the garden of J. Vere, esq.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXCV.

PROTEA CORYMBOSA.

_Corymbose-flowering Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 4-fida, seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, petalis infra
     apices insertæ. Calyx proprius, nullus. Semina solitaria.

     BLOSSOM 4-cleft, or of 4 petals: tips linear, inserted into the
     petals below the points. Cup proper, none. Seeds solitary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PROTEA foliis teretibus, brevibus, obtusis, adscendentibus,
     glaucis: floribus capitatis, luteis, corymbosis.

     Frutex pygmæus, dumosus: ramis sub-verticillatis.

     PROTEA with round short leaves, blunt ended, ascending, and
     glaucous: flowers headed, yellow, and growing in the manner of a
     corymbus.

     A dwarf shrub, bushy, with branches nearly whorled.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The involucrum of the flowers.
    2. A flower with its bractea.
    3. A chive magnified.
    4. Seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.


This plant has been long known in the gardens by the title of Protea
purpurea, but never flowered in this country till last summer, at the
nursery of Mr. Williams of Turnham Green; when, instead of purple
flowers, (as was expected from its specific title,) they proved to be
yellow. It bears so great a resemblance to the P. teretifolia, that when
we figured that species (by comparing it with a dried native specimen,)
we were almost inclined to think a small variety of that plant was the
P. corymbosa altered in its manner of growth in this climate by a
different mode of culture. But comparison with the living plants has now
determined them to be distinct species, and left no doubt remaining of
this being the P. corymbosa figured by Thunberg in his Dissertation on
the genus Protea.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXCVI.

JASMINUM MULTIFLORUM.

_Many-flowered Jasmine._


CLASS II. ORDER I.

_DIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Two Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 5-8-partita.

     COROLLA hypocrateriformis, 5-8-fida, bacca bilocularis.

     SEMINA solitaria, arillata.

     EMPALEMENT 5-8-parted.

     BLOSSOM funnel-shaped, 5-8-cleft, berry two-locular.

     SEEDS solitary, arillated.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     JASMINUM foliis oppositis, cordatis, glabris, pubescentibus:
     floribus terminalibus, umbellatis, quaternis vel octonis, in
     singula umbella: corollis albis, magnis, octofidis, odoratissimis.

     Habitat in Calcutta.

     JASMINE with opposite heart-shaped leaves, smooth, and hairy:
     flowers terminate the branches in umbels of 4 to 8 in each umbel:
     blossoms are white, large, eight-cleft, and very sweet-scented.

     Native of Calcutta.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. A blossom spread open.
    3. The empalement spread open with the seed-bud and pointal,
         summit magnified.


This fine new Jasmine was introduced by Lady Hume from the East Indies,
and is the largest-flowering species of the genus as yet known. It is
highly scented, and of the odour of the Gardenia, or Cape Jasmine. It is
a handsome hot-house plant, but from its recent introduction is at
present scarce. We find a small rude figure of it in Burman, under the
title of Nyctanthes multiflora: but it is now better accepted under the
softer-sounding appellation of Jasminum, an old fragrant and ever
favourite genus.

The drawing was made from a luxuriant specimen communicated to the
author by A. B. Lambert, esq.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXCVII.

JASMINUM SAMBAC; _Var. flore pleno_.

_Indian Jasmine; Full-flowered Variety._


CLASS II. ORDER I.

_DIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Two Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 5-8-partita.

     COROLLA hypocrateriformis, 5-8-fida, bacca bilocularis.

     SEMINA solitaria, arillata.

     EMPALEMENT 5-8-parted.

     BLOSSOM funnel-shaped, 5-8-cleft, berry two-locular.

     SEEDS solitary, arillated.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     JASMINUM foliis oppositis, ovatis, sæpe apice acutis: floribus in
     ramis terminalibus, plerumque ternis: corollis aggregatis, vel
     tribus in una, involutis, fragrantissimis: ramis oppositis,
     hirsutis, ferrugineis: caule patente, scandente.

     JASMINE with leaves opposite, egg-shaped, and often pointed at the
     end: flowers terminate the branches mostly by threes: blossoms are
     aggregate, or three in one folded together, and very sweet-scented:
     branches are opposite, hairy, and of a rusty colour: stem
     spreading, and climbing.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A blossom separated, the inner tube spread open.
    2. The empalement spread open, seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.


This Jasmine possesses a fragrance of such unequivocal sweetness as
renders it, although an old hot-house plant, one of its best
acquisitions. We have preferred the variety before the species, for its
superior beauty, and the opportunity of displaying the singular
construction of its flowers, which separate into three distinct parts;
the inner one bearing the stamens perfect in appearance, but upon
examination they will be found steril. This, as well as its original,
the single-flowering one, is highly esteemed all over India, cultivated,
and sold in their markets for the purpose of distilling from them a
perfumed water, like that extracted from the rose. The Indian women
macerate the flowers with those of Michelia champacca; the Uvaria
odoratissima, and the common Jasmine, in oil of aloes or oil of benzoin,
and then expose it to the sun for three days, adding fresh flowers every
day. It is then used by the youth of both sexes to anoint their hair
with, which they consider as their greatest ornament. In the spring,
garlands and crowns are made of the plants, and used by the Hindoos in
their sacrifices or religious rites. Both the single and this variety
are figured in Van Rheede’s Hortus Malabaricus, and also by Rumphius in
his Herbarium Amboynense, who describes the flowers as opening in India
at sun-set, continuing all night, and the following, when they fall off:
that the succession is abundant, thriving well on a trellis, like common
Jasmine, and having a charming appearance when impearled with the dew of
the morning.

Our figure was made from a plant in the hot-house of J. Vere, esq.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXCVIII.

HIBISCUS PRURIENS.

_Stinging Hibiscus._


CLASS XVI. ORDER VI.

_MONADELPHIA POLYANDRIA._ Threads united. Many Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX duplex, exterior polyphyllus. Stigmata 5. Capsula
     5-locularis, polysperma.

     EMPALEMENT double; outer one many-leaved. 5 summits. Capsule
     5-celled, many-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     HIBISCUS foliis sub-cordatis, lobatis, dentatis: floribus
     terminalibus, magnis, colore sulphureo, ad basin petalorum maculâ
     atropurpureâ notatis. Caulis et petioli setis parvis laxis obsiti
     sunt, quæ manibus adhærentes irritant et pungunt.

     HIBISCUS with nearly heart-shaped leaves, lobed and toothed:
     flowers terminal, large, and of a sulphur colour, with a dark
     purple spot at the base of the petals. The stem and petioles are
     beset with small loose bristles, which sticking to the hand
     irritate and sting.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. The chives cut open, one tip magnified.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal, summits magnified.


This non-descript species of Hibiscus is a native of the East Indies. It
approaches in general appearance nearest to the H. canabinus. The stems
and footstalks of our plant are beset with short bristly hairs, so
loosely attached that they easily come off, and, sticking about the
hands, create an unpleasant sensation somewhat resembling the stinging
of a nettle. The fine dark eye of the flower is a great relief to the
surrounding sulphur colour, to the light delicacy of whose appearance it
is so very difficult to do justice; for, in this showy family, elegant
inflorescence is their principal recommendation.

Our figure represents a fine plant raised in the hot-stove of A. B.
Lambert, esq.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXCIX.

IPOMÆA COCCINEA.

_Scarlet Ipomæa._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA infundibuliformis. Stigma capitato-globosum. Capsula
     3-locularis.

     BLOSSOM funnel-shaped. Summit headed, of a globular form. Capsule
     of 3 loculaments.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     IPOMÆA foliis hederinis: pedunculis multifloris: corollis saturate
     coccineis: caule purpureo, torto et involuto.

     IPOMÆA with ivy-shaped leaves: footstalks with many flowers:
     blossoms of a deep scarlet: stem purple, twisted, and twining.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. A blossom spread open.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.


Of this species of Ipomæa there are two good uncoloured figures: one in
Commelin’s Rariorum, tab. 21, under the title of Quamoclit Americana;
the other in the Americana of Plumier, 89, tab. 103, under the
appellation of Convolvulus coccineus; but not to be confounded with the
Ipomæa coccinea (erroneously so called) of the Botanical Magazine, which
is the I. luteola of Jacquin’s Icones, and a very different plant:
although Willdenow in his Species Plantarum has made a mere variety of
it; observing that it differs in no other particular except in colour.
But comparison, either with the living plants or the figures above
alluded to, will prove them to be distinct in their foliage as well as
the colour of their flowers. Neither of them is well discriminated by
its specific title; as the I. luteola is more of a scarlet than of a
yellow colour, and the coccinea is of too deep a red to be with accuracy
denominated scarlet. But references to colour are mostly too equivocal
to be very characteristic.

From Mr. J. Milne, botanic gardener at Fonthill, we received this
specimen, whose luxuriant growth in the hot-stove may probably have
occasioned the abbreviation in the filaments, which are generally
extended a little beyond the mouth of the flower, instead of being
confined to the base of the tube, as our figure represents; but in which
we follow nature: and although it is not an unprecedented circumstance
to find the threads shortened or lengthened by culture, yet when that
difference is so very powerful as in the present instance, it is well
deserving notice.

[Illustration]




PLATE D.

PROTEA MUCRONIFOLIA.

_Mucronate-leaved Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 4-fida, seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, petalis infra
     apices insertæ. Calyx proprius, nullus. Semina solitaria.

     BLOSSOM four-cleft, or of four petals. Tips linear, inserted into
     the petals below the points. Cup proper, none. Seeds solitary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PROTEA foliis lanceolatis, mucronatis, glaucis: involucro
     imbricato, ad basin parvo, cuneato, virescente; superis
     lanceolatis, patentibus, acutis, albis: floribus terminalibus,
     capitatis, carneis, petalis cohærentibus.

     PROTEA with lance-shaped, mucronate leaves of a glaucous green: the
     involucrum tiled, small at the base, wedge-shaped, and greenish:
     those on the upper part are lance-shaped, spreading, pointed, and
     white: flowers are terminal and headed, flesh-coloured, with the
     petals adhering together.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A flower spread open, one tip magnified.
    2. Seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.


Amongst the smaller species of this extensive genus the Protea
mucronifolia may be placed, but by no means ranked among the least in
beauty. It has been figured in the Paradisus Londinensis, and also in
the Botanical Magazine, and therefore in the botanical world may be no
longer considered as new or rare: but having already figured so many of
the most beautiful, we cannot think of excluding any attractive or
distinct species of this fine tribe of plants.

Our figure was taken from a plant in the garden of G. Hibbert, esq.

[Illustration]




PLATE DI.

HELLENIA ALLUGHAS.

_Ceylon Hellenia._


CLASS I. ORDER I.

_MONANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ One Chive. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX tubulosus, bifidus. Corolla tripartita, laciniarum apicibus
     cucullatis. Nectarium quadrifidum. Capsula globosa, et trivalvis,
     septo duplici inclusa, polysperma. Semina arillata.

     EMPALEMENT tubular, two-cleft. Blossom three-divided; the points of
     the segments are hooded. Nectarium four-cleft. Seed-vessel round,
     and three-valved, enclosed in a double loculament, many-seeded.
     Seeds arillated.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     HELLENIA foliis lanceolatis, vaginantibus: floribus in racemis
     terminalibus odoratissimis.

     Habitat in paludibus Zeylanicis.

     HELLENIA with lance-shaped sheathing leaves, with terminal racemes
     of flowers, which are very sweet-scented.

     Native of the marshes about Columbo.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

     1. The spathe.
     2. The sheath which crowns the seed-bud, cut open.
     3. A flower divested of the chives and nectary.
     4. The honey-cup.
     5. Seed-bud, chives, and pointal.
     6. The seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.
     7. The capsule.
     8. The same divested of its outer coat.
     9. A central branched cord that connects the lobes.
    10. One of the lobes of the seed-vessel.
    11. The same shown inside, with the seeds exposed
         and one lifted from its cell.
    12. A seed without its arillus, or skinny coat.


This fine Monandrous plant was named Hellenia by Willdenow, after his
friend Professor Hellenius: the title of Allughas was given it by the
Cingalese, from the fruit when young appearing as if sprinkled with
ashes. Burmann in his Thesaurus Zeylanicus, p. 54, informs us that the
Allughas grows abundantly in the marshes about Columbo; that the flowers
are very odoriferous, and are made into conserves and used as cordials
to strengthen the head and stomach; from the fruit and seed an oil is
extracted that is much used in medicine. Mr. Roscoe, in the 8th vol. of
the Linnæan Transactions, has ranked it under the genus Alpinia; but the
filamentary system of that gentleman we think infinitely too slender to
support the great difference existing between the fruit of our plant and
that of Alpinia.

Our figure was made from a fine living specimen, and the only one that
has ever flowered in this country, raised from seed by A. B. Lambert,
esq.

[Illustration]




PLATE DII.

LOBELIA SURINAMENSIS; _Var. flore rubro_.

_Surinam Lobelia; Red-flowered Variety._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 5-fidus. Corolla 1-petala, 5-fida, irregularis. Antheræ
     cohærentes. Capsula infera, 2-seu 3-locularis.

     EMPALEMENT 5-cleft. Blossom 1 petal, irregular, 5-cleft. Chives
     adhering together. Capsule beneath, 2, sometimes 3 loculaments.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     LOBELIA caule suffruticoso: foliis oblongis, glabris, serratis:
     floribus axillaribus, pedunculatis: corollis læte rubris,
     pentagonis, curvatis, tubulosis, supra basin impressis.

     Habitat in Surinamo.

     LOBELIA with a shrubby stem: leaves oblong, smooth, and sawed:
     flowers axillary, pedunculated: blossoms of a bright red colour,
     five-sided, curved, and tubular, indented just above the base.

     Native of Surinam.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. A blossom spread open.
    3. The chives spread open.
    4. The seed-bud and pointal.
    5. Seed-bud cut transversely.


A fine living specimen of this elegant variety of the Lobelia
Surinamensis was communicated to the author by A. B. Lambert, esq., who
received it amongst a large collection of hot-house plants presented to
him by Lord Seaforth, and collected by that nobleman in the West Indies
whilst Governor of the Island of Barbadoes. The plant from which this
figure was delineated was near four feet high, with numerous branches
terminated by buds and flowers, whose brilliance enlivening the gloomy
month of November, may justly rank it as one of the greatest ornaments
of the hot-stove.

[Illustration]




PLATE DIII.

NYMPHÆA RUBRA.

_Red-flowered Nymphæa._


CLASS XIII. ORDER I.

_POLYANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Many Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA polypetala. Calyx 4-seu 5-phyllus. Bacca multilocularis,
     loculis polyspermis.

     BLOSSOM many-petalled. Empalement 4-or 5-leaved. Berry many-celled,
     with many seeds in each cell.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     NYMPHÆA foliis sub-orbiculatis, irregulariter dentatis,
     glaberrimis: lobis approximatis: corollis rubris: radice battatis
     assimilatâ, et multiplicante in modum istius vegetabilis.

     Nymphæa rubra. _Roxb. MSS._

     NYMPHÆA with nearly round leaves irregularly toothed, and very
     smooth, with the lobes approximating: blossom red: root resembling
     that of a potatoe, and increasing like that vegetable.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A chive.
    2. Seed-bud and pointal.


This fine red aquatic is so nearly allied to the Nymphæa Lotus, that
many consider it as only a variety; but it certainly is specifically
distinct in the colour of the flowers, as the term variety can only be
applicable to those lighter or darker shades of colour that may
occasionally vary by culture or climate. This Nymphæa is no doubt, like
the N. Lotus, considered as a sacred plant; but probably that species
may be more highly estimated, from the emblematical purity of its fine
white petals. As four or five more figures will include every species of
this fine section of aquatics at present known, we shall not omit any of
them, and intend, in the course of the ensuing summer, to give a figure
of that most magnificent of all the species the N. Nelumbo.

Our figure was made from a plant in the collection of J. Vere, esq.
raised in a tub of water placed in a common hot-bed; where,
notwithstanding its circumscribed situation, it flowered for the time in
this kingdom, under the care of Mr. Anderson the botanic gardener, who
informs me that this species is capable of great increase from the root,
whilst the N. Lotus affords only one solitary plant.

[Illustration]




PLATE DIV.

SOLANUM SEAFORTHIANUM.

_Seaforth’s Solanum._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 5-fidus. Corolla rotata, limbo 5-fido, patente: tubo brevi.
     Antheræ oblongæ, conniventes, apice poris geminis, dehiscentes.
     Stigma obtusum. Bacca sub-rotunda.

     EMPALEMENT 5-cleft. Blossom wheel-shaped. Border 5-cleft,
     spreading. Tube short. Chives oblong, leaning together, with holes
     in pairs at the point, and splitting. Stigma obtuse. Berry nearly
     round.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     SOLANUM caule inermi, scandente, herbaceo: foliis pinnatis,
     undulatis: junioribus lanceolatis: floribus in racemo, aut ramo
     cymoso, ab axillis foliorum: corollis carneis.

     NIGHTSHADE with an unarmed stem, climbing and herbaceous. Leaves
     pinnated, and waved: the younger ones lance-shaped. Flowers grow in
     a raceme, or cymose branch, from the axillæ of the leaves. Blossom
     flesh-colour.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. Empalement and pointal, summit magnified.
    2. A blossom spread open.


Throughout this extended genus there are but few which possess
attractions equal to this new and undescribed species of Solanum. It was
introduced by Lord Seaforth from the West Indies; and although brought
from so warm a climate, it succeeds best in the conservatory. It
approaches nearest in its general appearance to the S. radicans of
Linnæus, but Mr. Lambert informs me that it is not at all inclined to
root, like that species. The specimen which our figure represents was
sent to us in fine bloom by Mr. J. Milne, botanic gardener.

[Illustration]




PLATE DV.

ORNITHOGALUM FLAVISSIMUM.

_Yellow-flowered Star of Bethlehem._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 6-petala, persistens. Filamenta basi dilatata. Capsula
     3-locularis. Semina subrotunda, nuda.

     BLOSSOM 6-petalled, remaining. Threads widened at the base. Capsule
     3-celled. Seeds roundish, naked.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     ORNITHOGALUM racemo longo: floribus magnis, flavissimis: bracteis
     membranaceis, ovato-acutis: foliis lanceolatis, reflexis.

     Ornithogalum flavissimum. _Jacq. Icones, 2. tab. 436._

     STAR OF BETHLEHEM with a long spike: the flowers are large, and
     very yellow: the flower-prop is skinny, and pointedly egg-shaped:
     leaves lance-shaped, and reflexed.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A bract or flower-prop.
    2. Seed-bud, chives, and pointal.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.
    4. A transverse section of the seed-bud magnified.


This yellow Ornithogalum was communicated to the author by the Hon. W.
Irby, last summer, from his collection at Farnham Royal, where it was
raised, we understand, from the seed of the O. aureum. The only figure
of it extant is in the Icones of Jacquin. The continuance and abundance
of its fine bloom may justly rank it amongst the most attractive of the
genus.



     ERRATUM.--In our last Number, Pl. DI, in the generic character of
     Hellenia describing the capsule, instead of trivalvis, septo
     duplici inclusa, read e-valvis, trilocularis--valveless,
     three-celled.

[Illustration]




PLATE DVI.

RUELLIA CRISTATA.

_Crested Ruellia._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 5-partitus. Corolla monopetala, limbo 5-lobo, inæquali.
     Stamina biconjugata. Stylus filiformis. Stigma bifidum. Capsula
     dissepimentis dentatis, elasticis, dehiscentibus. Semina pauca.

     EMPALEMENT 5-parted. Blossom one petal: border 5-lobed, unequal.
     Chives by pairs. Shaft thread-shaped. Summit two-cleft. Capsule
     with the partitions toothed, elastic, and splitting. Seeds few.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     RUELLIA cristata, spicis terminalibus, tetragonis: corollis
     coccineis: oris laciniis inæqualibus, acutis: lacinia inferiore
     revolutâ: foliis sub-lanceolatis, acuminatis, undulatisque.

     Justicia cristata. _Jacq. Hort. Schœn, vol. iii. tab. 320._

     RUELLIA with crested flowers growing in a terminal four-sided
     spike. Blossoms scarlet: the segments of the border are unequal and
     pointed: the lower segment is rolled back: the leaves are nearly
     lance-shaped, pointed, and undulated.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. A blossom spread open.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.


Of this fine stove plant there is a very good figure in the Hortus
Schœnbrunnensis of Jacquin, under the appellation of Justicia cristata.
But finding the generic character accord much better with the genus
Ruellia, we have, in conformity to the sexual system of Linnæus, given
it under that title. Our figure represents only a side branch of the
plant, whose size was congenial to the dimensions of the work; and
although the centre branch would have been, like Jacquin’s figure, more
splendid, it would by no means have been so picturesque. It flowered for
the first time in this country with A. B. Lambert, esq., and was
introduced by Lord Seaforth from the West Indies.

[Illustration]




PLATE DVII.

PROTEA ABROTANIFOLIA.

_Southernwood-leaved Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 4-fida, seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, petalis infra
     apices insertæ. Calyx proprius, nullus. Semina solitaria.

     BLOSSOM four-cleft, or of four petals. Tips linear, inserted into
     the petals below the points. Cup proper, none. Seeds solitary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PROTEA foliis bipinnatis, filiformibus, glabris: floribus
     terminalibus, umbellatis: pedunculis longis, bracteis magnis,
     reflexis: corollis carneis, externe villosis.

     Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

     PROTEA with doubly-winged leaves, thread-shaped, and smooth:
     flowers terminate the branches in umbels: footstalks are long, with
     large reflexed floral leaves: blossom flesh-coloured, and hairy on
     the outer side.

     Native of the Cape of Good Hope.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A leaf.
    2. A flower with its bract, one tip magnified.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.
    4. A branch of a slight variety.


This Protea is one of a fine section with small divided leaves, that
very much resemble the southernwood (whence our specific title). We have
already four drawings of distinct species, besides varieties, whose
foliage is likewise characteristic of that shrub. On the same plate we
have given part of the branch of a variety that we think bears too much
resemblance to require a separate figure.

Our drawing was made last July from plants in the Hibbertian
collection.

[Illustration]




PLATE DVIII.

CACTUS GRANDIFLORUS.

_Large-lowered Cereus._


CLASS XII. ORDER I.

_ICOSANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ About 20 Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX monophyllus, superus, imbricatus. Corolla multiplex. Bacca
     monolocularis, polysperma.

     EMPALEMENT one-leafed, above, tiled. Blossom of many folds. Berry
     of one loculament, many-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     CACTUS scandens vel repens, ramosus, articulatus, cum radiculis
     lateralibus: ramis sex-vel octagonis, aculeos stellatos ferentibus.
     Calyx radiatus, flavus: corollis albis. Flores magni, vesperè
     expansi, odorem fragrantissimum exhalantes.

     _Miller’s Icones, tab. 90._

     CEREUS with a climbing or creeping stem, branching, jointed, with
     small side-roots: branches six-or eight-angled, bearing starry
     prickles. Empalement rayed and yellow. Blossom white. Flowers
     large, expanding in the evening, and breathing a most fragrant
     odour.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A flower divested of the petals, and spread open.


This elegant hot-house plant has been figured by several authors, and is
well known by the appellation of the Night-blowing Cereus, and yet but
few of Flora’s lovely train, warmed by the mid-day sun’s refulgent
beams, in splendour can compare with this nocturnal beauty, whose
brilliant flowers expand about sun-set. But, alas! too soon condemned to
fade, they close up early on the following morn. Sometimes they have
been found unclosed almost within an hour of noon: a circumstance that
very rarely happens, as it generally displays its graceful blossoms to
Cynthia’s silver beams, perfuming the still cool air of midnight with
its aromatic fragrance.

Our figure was taken from a plant in the collection of the Dowager Lady
de Clifford at Dudley Grove, Paddington.

[Illustration]




PLATE DIX.

GENTIANA FIMBRIATA.

_Fringed-flowered Gentian._


CLASS V. ORDER II.

_PENTANDRIA DIGYNIA._ Five Chives. Two Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX monophyllus. Corolla monopetala. Capsula bivalvis,
     unilocularis, receptaculis duobus longitudinalibus.

     EMPALEMENT one-leafed. Blossom one petal. Capsule two-valved,
     one-celled, with two longitudinal receptacles.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     GENTIANA corollis quadrifidis, marginibus fimbriatis, colore
     cæruleo, in sole tantùm expandentibus, spithamæis: foliis
     ovato-acuminatis, oppositis, alternatis.

     Habitat in America boreali.

     GENTIAN with blossoms four-cleft, and fringed margins, of a blue
     colour, expanding only in the sun, a span high, with ovate-pointed
     leaves opposite and alternate.

     Native of North America.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. A blossom spread open.
    3. Seed-bud and pointals.
    4. The same spread open.


This new and undescribed species of Gentian possesses many attractions.
Its flowers are of a fine shining purply blue colour, and remain a long
time in perfection, but only expand with the assistance of solar ray.
Our figure represents a group of seedling plants, just as we found them
growing in a small pot in the nursery of Messrs. Whitley and Brames, who
inform me they raised them from seed, and they flowered the second year,
but think they will only prove biennial.

[Illustration]




PLATE DX.

ASPALATHUS GLOBOSUS.

_Round-flowering Aspalathus._


CLASS XVII. ORDER IV.

_DIADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads in two Sets. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX quinquefidus. Corolla papilionacea. Legumen ovatum,
     inaristatum, sub-dispermum.

     EMPALEMENT five-cleft. Blossom butterfly-shaped. Pod egg-shaped,
     beardless, nearly two-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     ASPALATHUS foliis ramos vestientibus, linearibus, tomentosis:
     floribus terminalibus, in capitulo rotundato villoso confertis:
     corollis fuscis: ramis longis, gracilibus.

     ASPALATHUS with leaves clothing the branches, linear, and downy:
     flowers terminal, crowded together in a round woolly head: blossom
     brown: branches long and slender.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A flower.
    2. The empalement spread open.
    3. The standard.
    4. One of the wings.
    5. The keel.
    6. The chives.
    7. The same magnified.
    8. Seed-bud and pointal.
    9. The same magnified.


This nondescript species of Aspalathus we have not seen in any
collection but that of G. Hibbert, esq. where in the summer of 1801 it
was in fine bloom, full three feet high, and its long pendulous branches
gave it a very graceful appearance. Its compact globular heads of
flowers remained a considerable time in perfection; but the close soft
hair with which they were surrounded, indicated a delicacy of habit too
susceptible of the damps which have since destroyed the plant, and we
believe it is for the present lost to this country.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXI.

SOLANUM BETACEUM.

_Beet-like Solanum._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA rotata. Antheræ subcoalitæ, apice poris geminis,
     dehiscentes. Bacca bilocularis.

     BLOSSOM wheel-shaped. Antheræ nearly joined together, with holes in
     pairs at the point, and splitting. Berry two-locular.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     SOLANUM caule inermi, erecto, maculate, altissimo: foliis
     radicalibus permagnis, fœtidissimis: corollis carneis, patentibus,
     ad apicem sub-reflexis, qui cucullatus est.

     _Cavanilles Icones, vol. vi. 15. tab. 524._

     NIGHTSHADE with an unarmed stem, upright, spotted, and very tall.
     The radical leaves are very large, and extremely fetid. Blossoms
     flesh-coloured, spreading, and somewhat reflexed at the point,
     which is hooded.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. A blossom spread open.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal.
    4. A transverse section of the seed-bud magnified.


This gigantic plant is by far the largest species of Solanum at present
known. Our figure represents upper part of a plant that was twelve feet
high, and the only one that ever flowered in this kingdom, in the
collection of A. B. Lambert, esq. who informed me that the radical
leaves measured fifteen inches in breadth and twenty in length. There is
but one figure of it extant, and that is in the Icones of Cavanilles,
who knew not whence it was indigenous: but it is supposed to be a native
of South America. It thrives best against the shelter of a south wall in
summer, but in winter requires the protection of the green-house. We
have seen two plants of it in the collection at Holland-house, the
enormous size of whose foliage then indicated an equal magnitude with
our plant when they arrive at a flowering state. At present it is very
scarce, and likely so to continue from the extreme fetidity of the
foliage. Upon burning a piece of the stalk, it displayed such a nitrous
appearance as indicated it to be very strongly impregnated with
saltpetre.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXII.

PROTEA PINNATA.

_Winged-leaved Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 4-fida, seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, petalis infra
     apices insertæ. Calyx proprius, nullus. Semina solitaria.

     BLOSSOM four-cleft, or of four petals. Tips linear, inserted into
     the petals below the points. Cup proper, none. Seeds solitary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PROTEA pinnata: floribus glomeratis, capitatis, terminalibus:
     corollis rubris, pilosis.

     Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

     PROTEA with winged leaves: flowers grow in round terminal heads:
     blossoms red and hairy.

     Native of Cape of Good Hope.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The flower prop.
    2. A blossom with one tip magnified.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.


This new species of Protea resembles in its flowers the P. glomerata, in
its foliage the P. argentiflora, but altogether is very different from
either. Like most of the genus, it is slow in growth, and remains a long
time in perfection. Our drawing was made at the Hibbertian collection
the summer before last. We also observed it again last year, very near
unfolding its flowers; but being later in the autumn than usual, most
probably prevented their expansion. We are inclined to think this
species is rather tender, and, like too many of this extensive family,
requires great care and attention to preserve: a circumstance that most
likely prevents their being in that request which their beauty and
versatility would otherwise command.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXIII.

CACTUS HEXAGONUS.

_Great Torch Thistle._


CLASS XII. ORDER I.

_ICOSANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ About 20 Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX monophyllus, superus, imbricatus. Corolla multiplex. Bacca
     monolocularis, polysperma.

     EMPALEMENT one-leafed, above, tiled. Blossom of many folds. Berry
     of one loculament, many-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     CACTUS erectus, altissimus, maximus, sex-et octagonus, angulis
     distantibus, aculeos stellatos ferens. Calyx tubulosus, viridis:
     corollis radiatis, albis: petalis exterioribus læviter purpureis.

     Habitat in Surinamo.

     _Cactus hexagonus. Willd. Sp. Pl._

     CACTUS with an upright stem, tall and large, six-and eight-sided,
     angles distant, bearing starry prickles. Empalement tubular, and
     green. Blossom rayed, and white: the outer petals slightly tinged
     with purple.

     Native of Surinam.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A flower divested of the petals, and
         cut open to the base of the tube.
    2. The seed-bud cut transversely.
    3. One of the side shoots.
    4. Miniature figure of the plant.


No genus of plants more remarkable has yet been discovered than that to
which our present subject belongs, whether we consider their simple
succulent structure, strange diversity of form and habit, or the
geometrical manner of their growth and disposition of their spines. Some
of them, like the _Opuntia_ and _Ficus Indica_, grow like figs or
cucumbers stuck one upon another; others, like C. curassavicus, resemble
a little cushion stuck full of pins with the points outwards; the C.
Melocactus and mammillaris are like melons covered with prickles: one,
the moniliformis, has globular joints: the C. Tuna, (which Jacquin in
his History of the Plants of America informs us is planted in the Island
of St. Eustatius round their towns as fortifications,) the coccinilifer,
and some others, have compressed ones: in C. Phyllanthus they are
two-edged: we have Cactus triangularis, tetragonus, pentagonus, and the
hexagonus now figured, but which varies occasionally from 6 to 8: we
also have 7-8-9-10-14-and 15-angled species, even their spines are
regularly disposed in quincunxes.

Monsieur Thiery, in his Voyage à Guaxaca informs us that in Mexico he
found whole forests of the Cactus composed of 8 or 10 different species,
from 40 to 50 feet high, and some of them 5 or 6 feet in circumference.
Woe to the unfortunate traveller who is under them in a storm, when
their thorny tops are dashed to the ground! his destruction is
inevitable. In Mexico and Campeachy, not only the fruits but the young
shoots of most of the species of Cacti are eaten: ragouts are also made
of the buds and unopened flowers: even their seeds are made into bread,
and that of the smaller sorts (as C. mammillaris) into tarts; of which
Monsieur Thiery says he had tasted, and they were excellent. With the
fruit of C. Pitahiaha and that of C. Tuna he supported himself when
almost famished in traversing the sandy deserts. Professor Jacquin also
informs us, that the fruits of all the species he found in America were
eaten by the natives. The arts are likewise much indebted to the genus
Cactus, as the cochineal insect (so essential in the formation of our
fine lake and carmine colours) can only be bred upon the coccinilifer
and some other species of Cacti.

Our figure represents a plant that flowered in the hot-house of Major
Leathes at bury St. Edmunds. The living specimen, accompanied with an
accurate miniature representation of the plant, was obligingly
communicated by the Rev. G. R. Leathes, who informs me that it was 17
feet high; that the bend at the top was owing to a want of room in its
ascent, which subverted its otherwise naturally erect posture; that it
began to flower in July, expanding about 5 in the afternoon, and was in
the greatest perfection at midnight: but as the autumn advanced the
flowers opened later and later, till at last in the month of October (by
which time at least 30 had been produced) they did not open till 9 or 10
o’clock in the morning. It is increased by the side shoots, whose
absence adds vigour to the plant, which is as hardy as any of the
species, and may be kept in a green-house, but will not flower without
the assistance of the hot-house, and even then is very rarely to be
found in bloom.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXIV.

PÆONIA ANOMALA.

_Anomalous-leaved Pæony._


CLASS XIII. ORDER V.

_POLYANDRIA PENTAGYNIA._ Many Chives. Five Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 5-phyllus. Petala 5. Styli 0. Capsulæ polyspermæ.

     CUP 5-leaved. Petals 5. Pointal none. Capsules many-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PÆONIA foliis biternatis, multipartitis: foliolis lanceolatis,
     undulatis, glabris: corollis læte purpureis, depressis: capsulis
     glabris.

     Habitat in totâ Sibiria.

     PÆONY with biternate leaves, many-parted. Leaflets lance-shaped,
     waved, and smooth. Blossom of a bright purple, depressed. Capsules
     smooth.

     Native throughout Siberia.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement shown from the outer side.
    2. Seed-buds, chives, and pointals.


Our figure represents a fine and at present very rare species of Pæony,
not only ornamental in its flowers, but useful in its roots, which are
eaten by the Mongolians in Tartary, at their meals, as vegetables. It
flowered for the first time in this country in the month of July 1807 in
the garden of Mr. J. Bell, near Brentford.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXV.

CYNANCHUM MUCRONATUM.

_Mucronate-leaved Cynanchum._


CLASS V. ORDER II.

_PENTANDRIA DIGYNIA._ Five Chives. Two Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CONTORTUM. Nectarium cylindricum, quinquedentatum.

     CONTORTED. Honey-cup cylindrical, five-toothed.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     CYNANCHUM caule scandente, piloso: foliis sub-cordatis, apice
     mucronatis: floribus axillaribus, in umbellis proliferis: corollis
     purpureis et virescentibus: oris laciniis acutis, tortis, reflexis.

     Habitat in Insula Trinidada.

     CYNANCHUM with a hairy climbing stem. Leaves nearly heart-shaped,
     with a mucronated end. Flowers axillary, in proliferous umbels.
     Blossoms purple and greenish. Segments of the border pointed,
     twisted, and bent back.

     Native of the Island of Trinidad.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. The blossom spread open.
    3. The parts of fructification magnified.
    4. The outer scale of the honey-cup.
    5. The inner of the same.
    6. The seed-bud, shaft, summit and chives, magnified.


This handsome new species of Cynanchum was introduced by Lord Seaforth,
who informs us that it is a native of the Island of Trinidad. It
flowered with A. B. Lambert, esq. at Royston House, last June, for the
first time in England, and is not as yet in any other collection. It is
very free grower, running to a great length, with many umbels of
flowers, which succeed each other during most part of the summer.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXVI.

ASTRAGALUS VILLOSUS.

_Hairy Astragalus._


CLASS XVII. ORDER IV.

_DIADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Two Brotherhoods. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     LEGUMEN plerumque biloculare, gibbum. Semina biserialia.

     A POD mostly two-celled, bunched. Seeds in two rows.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     ASTRAGALUS caule humili villoso: foliis pinnatis: foliolis 20-30,
     oblongis, geminis, villosis: petiolis longissimis, villosis:
     floribus aggregatis viride flavis: leguminibus oblongis, lanatis.

     ASTRAGALUS with a low hairy stem. Leaves winged. Leaflets 20 to 30,
     oblong, in pairs, and villous. Footstalk of the leaves very long,
     and hairy. Flowers in bunches, of a greenish yellow. Pod oblong,
     and woolly.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. The standard.
    3. One of the wings.
    4. The keel.
    5. The chives.
    6. The same spread open.
    7. Seed-bud and pointal.
    8. The same shown from the under side.


The figure of this handsome hardy perennial shrub was delineated from a
plant in the collection of J. Swainson, esq. at Twickenham, where it was
raised from seed received from Vienna in the year 1805, under the title
of Astragalus exscapus: but upon comparison with the figures extant of
that species, we could not with propriety rank it under that
denomination, especially as it bears as much or more resemblance to some
of the surrounding species of that extensive family, one hundred and
seventy-four of which are already enumerated by Willdenow. It is a plant
of very humble growth, but by no means stemless, and produces flowers in
abundant succession during the months of July and August.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXVII.

PROTEA IMBRICATA.

_Imbricated-leaved Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 4-fida, seu 4-petals. Antheræ lineares, petalis infra
     apices insertæ. Calyx proprius, nullus. Semina solitaria.

     BLOSSOM four-cleft, or of four petals. Tips linear, inserted into
     the petals below the points. Cup proper, none. Seeds solitary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PROTEA foliis imbricatis, lanceolatis, nervosis, pilosis: floribus
     terminalibus, confertim capitatis, villosis.

     Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

     _Thunb. Diss. 45. t. 5. f. 2._

     PROTEA with imbricated leaves, lance-shaped, nerved, and hairy:
     flowers terminal, in crowded heads, and hairy.

     Native of the Cape of Good Hope.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A leaf magnified.
    2. An umbel of flowers.
    3. A chive magnified.
    4. Seed-bud and pointal.


This Cape species is described and figured by Thunberg in his
Dissertation on the genus Protea. It is rather a tender plant, and
flowers at first very sparingly; which is the case with almost all this
tribe for the first year or two: after they are more familiarized to our
climate they become much more prolific. We have seen native specimens of
this species abundant in flowers terminating every branch.

Our figure was made from a plant in the conservatory of G. Hibbert, esq.
whose collection still contains unrivalled the greatest number of new
and beautiful species of Protea.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXVIII.

MAGNOLIA GRANDIFLORA.

_Larger-flowered Magnolia._


CLASS XIII. ORDER VII.

_POLYANDRIA POLYGYNIA._ Many Chives. Many Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 3-phyllus. Petala 6-12. Capsulæ 2-valves, imbricatæ. Semina
     baccata, pendula.

     CUP 3-leaved. Petals 6-12. Capsules 2-valved, tiled. Seeds berried,
     pendulous.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     MAGNOLIA foliis persistentibus, lanceolatis, obtusis, marginibus
     cartilagineis, supra viridi-lucidis, subtus ferrugineis: corollis
     magnis, crassis, albis, odoratissimis.

     Habitat in Florida et Carolina meridionali.

     MAGNOLIA with leaves persistent, lance-shaped, and blunt, with
     cartilaginous margins of a shining green on the upper surface, and
     rusty-coloured beneath. Blossoms large, thick, white, and very
     sweet-scented.

     Native of Florida and South Carolina.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The chives and pointals.
    2. A chive.
    3. The same shown from the outer side.


This odoriferous plant is figured by Catesby in his Caroliniensis, who
describes it as a stately tree eighty feet high; that it perfumes the
woods with its fragrance; that its fruit is of a glittering red, not
falling immediately to the ground, but hanging pendulous by small white
threads about two inches long, in which state it must still be a
beautiful object. It very rarely, if ever, perfects its seed in this
country. Independent of its fine large sweet-scented flowers, it is a
handsome evergreen. There are several variations of it in foliage. It
succeeds well, trained up against a south wall. From a plant so
situated, on the premises of Messrs. Whitley and Brames, our figure was
delineated.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXIX.

COMMERSONIA ECHINATA.

_Bristly-fruited Commersonia._


CLASS V. ORDER V.

_PENTANDRIA PENTAGYNIA._ Five Chives. Five Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX monophyllus, 5-partitus.

     COROLLA. Petala 5, linearia, basi lobata, apice inflexa. Nectarium
     5-partitum.

     STAMINA. Filamenta 5, brevissima, ad basin petalorum. Antheræ
     sub-rotundæ, parvæ.

     GERMEN globosum, villosum. Styli 5, breves, approximates. Stigma
     globosum.

     CAPSULA dura, setacea: setis longis, pilosis, 5-locularibus:
     loculamentis dispermis.

     SEMINA ovata.

     EMPALEMENT one-leafed, 5-parted.

     BLOSSOM. Petals 5, linear, lobed at the base, and turned inward at
     the point. Nectarium 5-parted.

     CHIVES. Threads 5, very short, at the base of the petals. Tips
     nearly round, and small.

     SEED-BUD globular and villose. Shafts 5, short, and approximating.
     Summit headed.

     CAPSULE hard and bristly. Bristles long and hairy, 5-locular; the
     loculaments 2-seeded.

     SEEDS ovate.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. The petals and honey-cups.
    3. A petal and chives, magnified.
    4. Seed-bud and pointals.
    5. The capsule spread open.
    6. One of the loculaments divested of the bristles.
    7. The same split open, one seed detached.


This fragrant plant was named by Forster after Commerson, the celebrated
botanist, who accompanied Bougainville in his Voyage round the World,
and explored the coasts of Brazil and Buenos Ayres, the Streights of
Magellan, and the Islands of Otaheite, New Britain, Bouro, Java, and the
Mauritius, for the space of seven years, and returned to France with a
herbarium of above 3000 species, amongst which were many new genera; all
which, together with his manuscripts, are preserved in the Museum of
Natural History at Paris. Duplicates of them were by him sent to
Linnæus, and are now in the possession of Dr. Smith, President of the
Linnæan Society. Our drawing was made from a plant (the only one at
present in the kingdom) in the hot-house of A. B. Lambert, esq. Boyton
House, who informs me that it flowered with him the second year from
seed, in great abundance, and continued in flower all the summer, during
the warmer part of which it was extremely fragrant; which renders it a
valuable addition to our collection of stove plants. The flowers for
several weeks proved abortive, owing to their very singular
construction; in which the short stamina are completely excluded from
the pistillum. As a remedy for this, Mr. Lambert introduced a hive of
bees into the hot-house, which soon produced the desired effect, as in
three or four days after the germens began to swell. The form of the
leaves varies exceedingly, particularly whilst the plant is young,
coming sometimes much broader and with two side lobes; which has been
mistaken by some for a different species. Almost every part of the plant
is villous. Rumphius informs us (in his Herbarium Amboynense) that the
Commersonia grows to a tree in the Moluccas, and is so plentiful that
its wood is in common use as _deal_; that the bark is manufactured into
matches; and that the bruised leaves smell like the flowers of the
_Sampacca_, which is considered by the natives as one of the sweetest
flowers in India. It is a native of Amboyna, New Caledonia, and other
Islands in the South Seas.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXX.

EUOSMA ALBIFLORA.

_White-flowered Euosma._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX persistens, basi bracteatus, quinque-partitus, laciniis
     subrotundis appressis.

     COROLLA campanulata, limbo patente 5-lobo.

     STAMINA quinque tubo inserta, inclusa, divisurisque corollæ
     alterna: Filamenta brevia: Antheræ subrotundæ, compressæ.

     GERMEN superum, subovatum: Stylus crassus, brevis: Stigma
     capitatum.

     CAPSULA glabra cuneato-ovata, stylo persistente coronata, bisulca,
     dicocca: Cocculi bivalves polyspermi, intus ad apices dehiscentes:
     Receptacula in singulo cocculo singulum, subtrigonum, longum,
     erectum, marginibus valvarum annexum.

     SEMINA ovata, hinc convexa, inde depressa papillis minutissimis
     undique scabra, duplici serie receptaculo imposita.

     EMPALEMENT persistent, bracteated at the base, 5-parted, with the
     divisions nearly round, and lying close.

     BLOSSOM bell-shaped, the mouth spreading 5-lobed.

     CHIVES five inserted in the tube and included, alternate with the
     divisions of the blossom: Threads short: Tips nearly round,
     compressed.

     SEED-BUD above, oval: Shaft thick and short: Summit simple-headed.

     FRUIT a dry capsule of an oval wedge-shape, two-furrowed, dividing
     into two parts, and crowned with the persistent shaft: each part is
     two-valved and many-seeded, opening on the inside at the top:
     Receptacles for the seeds one in each cell; they are long,
     three-sided and erect, lying upon the edges of the valves.

     SEEDS oval, convex on one side and depressed on the other, every
     where rough with minute tubercles, and placed upon the receptacle
     in a double series.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. A blossom.
    3. The same spread open.
    4. Seed-bud and pointal.
    5. The same magnified.
    6. The capsule.
    7. The same split into two divisions.
    8. One of the divisions uncovered, to show the situation of the seed.
    9. A ripe seed.


The specimen of this new and very distinct genus was communicated April
the 11th by the marquis of Blandford from a fine plant in his lordship’s
collection at White Knights, planted against a wall on a south aspect,
about four feet high, and nearly covered with blossoms. Its great
fragrance, more resembling that of the _May_ (Cratægus Oxyacantha) than
any thing else we are acquainted with, makes the plant very desirable to
collectors, and the more so, that it is hardy enough to bear our winters
without the shelter of a green-house, and blossoms so early in spring.
This fragrant shrub is a native of New Holland in the neighbourhood of
Port Jackson, from whence we have seen fine specimens in the collection
of A. B. Lambert, esq. who favoured us with the ripe fruit. Who first
introduced the plant, we have not been able to learn, but have seen it
in several collections.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXXI.

ERIOSPERMUM FOLIOLIFERUM.

_Leaflet-bearing Eriospermum._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX nullus.

     COROLLA. Petala sex basi connata, subtus lanceolata, acuta: tria
     exteriora patula: tria interiora erecta, cum limbo acuto patulo
     connivente. Omnia post impregnationem erecta, in modum coni.

     STAMINA. Filamenta sex, late lanceolata, acuta, plana, apicibus
     introrsum volutis. Antheræ oblongæ, incumbentes.

     PISTILLUM. Germen superum, subrotundum, trisulcatum. Stylus
     filiformis, erectus. Stigma obtusum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula triloba, trilocularis, trivalvis.

     SEMINA pauca, lanceolata, acuta, pilis tomentosis obsessa.

     EMPALEMENT none.

     BLOSSOM. Six petals approaching together at the base, beneath
     lance-shaped and pointed, the three outer ones spreading: the three
     inner ones upright, with a pointed wide approaching border. All
     after impregnation stand upright, like a cone.

     CHIVES. Six threads broadly lance-shaped, pointed, and flat, with
     the points turned inward. Tips oblong, and lying on them.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud above, nearly round, three-furrowed. Shaft
     thread-shaped, upright. Summit blunt.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule 3-lobed, 3-locular, 3-valved.

     SEEDS few, lance-shaped, pointed, and covered with downy hairs.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     ERIOSPERMUM foliis sub-cordatis, superne folia parva erecta
     linguæformia, filamentis albis parvis obsessa, ferentibus. Flores
     spicati, laxi. Corolla lutea, viride striata.

     Habitat in Caput Bonæ Spei.

     ERIOSPERMUM with nearly heart-shaped leaves, bearing on their upper
     surface little upright tongue-shaped leaflets beset with small
     white threads. Flowers grow in a loose spike. Blossom yellow,
     striped with green.

     Native of the Cape of Good Hope.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. Chives and pointal.
    2. A chive magnified.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal.
    4. Seed-bud cut transversely, magnified.


This curious Cape plant is not at present, we believe, in any other
collection in this kingdom than that of G. Hibbert, esq. where we first
observed it in the autumn of 1806. It was not then in bloom, but
flowered the following summer. It is by no means specious in its
flowers, but very interesting in the singularity of its foliage, whose
uncommon structure is very distinct from any plant we have ever seen.
Mr. Knight, the botanic gardener, informs me that it increases from the
root, but not abundantly, and, like most Cape bulbs, is in a dormant
state during the latter part of autumn, at which time it should be
watered very sparingly. It appears rather impatient of having its roots
often disturbed: once in two or three years is necessary, not only to
renew the earth, but to take off any small bulbs it may have produced.
It delights to grow in a light loamy or peaty soil, and should stand in
an elevated part of the green-house, to enjoy a full circulation of
air.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXXII.

PROTEA ABROTANIFOLIA HIRTA.

_Hairy Southernwood-leaved Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 4-fida, seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, petalis infra
     apices insertæ. Calyx proprius, nullus. Semina solitaria.

     BLOSSOM four-cleft, or of four petals. Tips linear, inserted into
     the petals below the points. Cup proper, none. Seeds solitary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PROTEA foliis bipinnatis, filiformibus, pilosis: floribus ramos
     terminantibus in umbellis confertis: pedunculis brevissimis:
     bracteis erectis: corollis pallide carneis. Stigmata nigra.

     Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

     PROTEA with doubly-winged leaves, thread-shaped, and hairy. Flowers
     terminate the branches in crowded umbels. Footstalks very short.
     Floral leaves upright. Blossoms of a pale flesh-colour. Summit of
     the pointal black.

     Native of the Cape of Good Hope.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A flower-prop.
    2. The chives spread open.
    3. A chive magnified.
    4. Seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.


This hairy-leaved Protea resembles the P. abrotanifolia, Pl. 507, but is
upon examination very distinct. The flowers are of a pale rose colour,
but have a lively appearance from the contrasted blackness of the
stigma. It is a round bushy plant, flowering early in the autumn,
requiring the same treatment as the generality of those species with
small divided leaves.

Our figure was made from a plant in the Hibbertian collection.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXXIII.

GORTERIA PAVONIA.

_Peacock Gorteria._


CLASS XIX. ORDER IV.

_SYNGENESIA POLYGAMIA NECESSARIA._ Tips united. Necessary Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     RECEPTACULUM nudum. Pappus lanatus. Corolla radiata, lingulata.
     Calyx monophyllus, squamis imbricatis tectus.

     RECEPTACLE naked. Down woolly. Blossom rayed, tongue-shaped.
     Empalement one-leafed, covered with imbricated scales.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     GORTERIA foliis pinnatis: foliolis æqualibus, ovatis, marginibus
     revolutis, pilosis, subtus albis: petalis radii magnis, aurantiis,
     ad basin eleganter notatis. Caulis herbaceus.

     GORTERIA with winged leaves. The leaflets are equal, ovate, rolled
     back at the edges, hairy, and white beneath: petals of the ray
     large, of a gold-colour, and elegantly marked at the base. Stem
     herbaceous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. One of the radiating petals.
    3. The same shown from the under side.
    4. A petal as it appears when rolled up.
    5. A floret of the disk.
    6. The seed-bud and pointal.


This new species of Gorteria stands foremost in the ranks of beauty
whilst expanded by the solar ray, whose absence is soon visible in the
plant by the rolling up of the petals; but on the following morn, when
the sun’s beams begin to warm the vegetable world, they again unfold
themselves with undiminished lustre, and so continue successively for
near a fortnight.

Our drawing was made from a fine plant in the nursery of Mr. Harrison at
Brompton. We also observed it in bloom at Messrs. Colville’s; from whom,
to complete the dissections, we received a flower, which, although it
had been a week in bloom, continued to perform its diurnal evolutions
(in a glass of water) of rolling up and expanding for nearly a week
longer--but only from eleven till one in the day:--a shorter time, most
probably owing to its being kept in a room whose northern aspect
prevented the exhilarating rays of Phœbus from approaching. It was
introduced from the Cape of Good Hope by G. Hibbert, esq. about the year
1804, and considered as biennial.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXXIV.

LACHNÆA BUXIFOLIA.

_Box-leaved Lachnæa._


CLASS VIII. ORDER I.

_OCTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Eight Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX nullus. Corolla quadrifida; limbo inæquali. Semen unum,
     sub-baccatum.

     CUP none. Blossom four-cleft; border unequal. One seed, nearly
     berried.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     LACHNÆA foliis ovatis, glabris, glaucis: floribus in capitulis
     globosis: corollis albis, odoratis. Caulis teres, longissimus.

     Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

     LACHNÆA with ovate, smooth, glaucous leaves. Flowers in globular
     heads. Blossoms white, and sweet-scented. Stem round, and very
     long.

     Native of the Cape of Good Hope.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A blossom spread open.
    2. The seed-bud and pointal.
    3. The flower-receptacle.


This fragrant species of Lachnæa is the L. buxifolia of Lamarck, and the
Gnidia filamentosa of Linnæus; but certainly not a Gnidia, as it wants
the four small inner petals, the distinguishing feature and most
essential distinction between those two genera.

Our figure delineates a plant in the conservatory of G. Hibbert, esq.
that was upwards of five feet high; and interspersed amongst some fine
bushy shrubs, its compact flowers and delicate glaucous foliage gave it
a picturesque appearance.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXXV.

PODALYRIA HIRSUTA.

_Hairy Podalyria._


CLASS X. ORDER I.

_DECANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Ten Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX sub-bilabiatus, quinquefidus. Corolla papilionacea. Alæ
     vexilli longitudine. Legumen ventricosum, polyspermum.

     EMPALEMENT nearly bilabiate, five-cleft. Blossom butterfly-shaped.
     Wings the length of the standard. Pod ventricose, and many-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PODALYRIA foliis simplicibus, hirsutis, ovatis vel oblongis:
     corollis magnis, purpureis, plerumque simplicibus: pedunculis
     longis: ramis teretibus, pilosis.

     PODALYRIA with simple, hairy leaves, ovate or oblong. Blossoms
     large and purple, mostly single. Footstalks long. Branches round
     and hairy.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. The standard.
    3. One of the wings.
    4. The keel.
    5. Chives and pointal.
    6. The chives spread open.
    7. Seed-bud and pointal.


Podalyria is a section of the genus Sophora, separated from it by
Lamarck, and named after the son of Æsculapius, the celebrated physician
who accompanied the Grecians in their famous expedition against Troy.

This species, we have little doubt, is the P. hirsuta (an unfigured
species) enumerated by Willdenow, although by some it is thought to be
distinct from it, on account of the leaves being somewhat longer, the
flowers of a finer colour; differences, we think, accounted for in the
latitude of growth resulting from varied modes of culture.

Our drawing was made from a plant raised from Cape seed, by Messrs.
Whitley and Brames, in the year 1806.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXXVI.

PROTEA CESPITOSA.

_Turfy Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 4-fida, seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, petalis infra
     apices insertæ. Calyx proprius, nullus. Semina solitaria.

     BLOSSOM four-cleft, or of four petals. Tips linear, inserted into
     the petals below the points. Cup proper, none. Seeds solitary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PROTEA foliis rigidis, lanceolatis, pilosis, undulatis, glabris,
     patentibus, apice adscendente, supra convexis, infra concavis:
     capitulo globoso, terminali: corollis ferrugineis: squamis pilosis,
     interne læte rubris. Caulis humilis.

     Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

     PROTEA with rigid, lance-shaped, hairy leaves, waved, smooth, and
     spreading, with an ascending point, convex above, and concave
     beneath: head of flowers globular, and terminal. Blossoms of a
     rusty colour. Scales hairy, and of a bright red on the inside. Stem
     low.

     Native of the Cape of Good Hope.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A flower complete.
    2. Seed-bud and pointal.


This new dwarf Protea is named from its sod-or turf-like appearance.
Although of low and humble growth, it is by no means deficient in
attraction. The inner side of the imbricating scales is of a fine red,
which is a great addition to its beauty whilst expanded: but in our
plant this was of short duration, occasioned by the pressure of the
leaves from the rapid growth of the surrounding side shoots.

Our figure was made from the Hibbertian collection.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXXVII.

RUELLIA FULGIDA.

_Bright-flowered Ruellia._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 5-partitus. Corolla monopetala, limbo 5-lobo, inæquali.
     Stamina biconjugata. Stylus filiformis. Stigma bifidum. Capsula
     dissepimentis dentatis, elasticis, dehiscentibus. Semina pauca.

     EMPALEMENT 5-parted. Blossom one petal: border 5-lobed, unequal.
     Chives by pairs. Shaft thread-shaped. Summit two-cleft. Capsule
     with the partitions toothed, elastic, and splitting. Seeds few.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     RUELLIA foliis petiolatis, ovato-acuminatis, undulatis, pilosis,
     crenatis: pedunculis axillaribus, cum multis floribus tubæformibus.

     RUELLIA with petiolated leaves ovately pointed, waved, hairy, and
     scolloped. Footstalks axillary, with many long trumpet-shaped
     flowers.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. A blossom spread open.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal.
    4. The capsule.
    5. The same split open.
    6. A ripe seed.


This new and beautiful species of Ruellia was introduced by Lord
Seaforth from the West Indies, and flowered in Mr. Lambert’s stove at
Boyton, in June 1807, for the first time in England; and continued, as
he informs us, to flower during the greatest part of the summer,
ripening its seeds in abundance, and being easily propagated by
cuttings.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXXVIII.

ORNITHOGALUM ELATUM.

_Lofty Ornithogalum._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 6-petala, persistens. Filamenta basi dilatata. Capsula
     3-locularis. Semina subrotunda, nuda.

     BLOSSOM 6-petalled, remaining. Threads widened at the base. Capsule
     3-celled. Seeds roundish and naked.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     ORNITHOGALUM foliis lanceolatis: floribus in racemo longissimo
     crescentibus, albis et parvis: staminibus longitudinem corollarum
     fere æquantibus.

     ORNITHOGALUM with lance-shaped leaves. Flowers grow on a very long
     spike, are white and small. The stamens scarcely the length of the
     blossoms.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A petal and chive.
    2. A chive shown from the outer side.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal.
    4. The same magnified.


This tall and delicate plant was introduced by J. M. Cripps, esq., who
found the roots in Egypt on the plains of Alexandria, near the spot
where the famous battle was fought in the year 1801; and from one which
he planted in his garden at Staunton in Sussex our drawing was made. It
agrees in habit with the Ornithogalum latifolium, but is perfectly
distinct both in the blossoms and foliage from that species. The plant
which our figure represents had already produced four side bulbs. It
flowered in March last, and appears to propagate freely.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXXIX.

NITRARIA SCHOBERI.

_Schober’s Nitraria._


CLASS XI. ORDER I.

_DODECANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Twelve Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 5-petala, cucullata.

     CALYX 5-fidus. Stamina 15. Drupa 1-sperma.

     BLOSSOM five-petalled, hooded.

     EMPALEMENT 5-cleft. Chives 15. Berry oneseeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     NITRARIA foliis integerrimis, obtusis.

     Habitat in Siberia.

     _Pallas’s Flora Rossica_, vol. i. tab. 50.

     NITRARIA with entire leaves, blunt.

     Native of Siberia.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. A petal.
    3. Seed-bud, chives, and pointal.
    4. A chive magnified.
    5. Seed-bud and pointal.
    6. The same magnified.


This species of Nitraria is named after Schober, a physician and lover
of botany in Russia. It grows in the barren salt deserts near the
Caspian Sea, particularly about the salt lakes in Siberia, and is also
found in Astracan. It bears reddish berries of a salt taste, is a very
rare plant in our gardens, but successfully cultivated by Mr. Bell, who
not only puts salt to the roots, but also on the foliage. From a plant
of his thus treated our drawing was made last summer. Only one more
species of the genus has yet been discovered.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXXX.

BIGNONIA UNCATA.

_Hooked Bignonia._


CLASS XIV. ORDER II.

_DIDYNAMIA ANGIOSPERMIA._ Two Chives longer. Seeds covered.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 5-fidus, cyathiformis. Corolla fauce campanulata, 5-fida,
     subtus ventricosa. Siliqua bilocularis. Semina membranacea, alata.

     EMPALEMENT 5-cleft, cup-shaped. Blossom bell-shaped at the mouth,
     5-cleft, and bellied beneath. A pod of two cells. Seeds winged,
     with a skinny membrane.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     BIGNONIA foliis conjugatis, longo-lanceolatis, acuminatis, et
     tribus cirris acutis uncatis.

     BIGNONIA with conjugate, long-lanced, acuminate leaves, and three
     hooked sharp tendrils.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. A flower spread open, the segments of the border cut off.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal.


This new species of Bignonia flowered for the first time in England in
the stove of A. B. Lambert, esq. Boyton. We have seen it (but not in
flower) in other collections, and have heard it called by the specific
title of ophthalmica: but as no reason could be assigned for that
appellation within the reach of our inquiry, we have named it from its
hooked tendrils. It is an autumnal-flowering plant running to a great
length, with frequent blossoms, is a native of Cayenne, and was
introduced by Lord Seaforth.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXXXI.

VERONICA DERWENTIA.

_New Holland Veronica._


CLASS II. ORDER I.

_DIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Two Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA limbo 4-partito: laciniis infimis angustioribus. Capsula
     bilocularis.

     BLOSSOM, border 4-parted. Lowest segments narrower. Capsule
     two-locular.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     VERONICA foliis lanceolatis, oppositis, alternis, dentatis:
     floribus spicatis, axillaribus: corollis parvis, pallide violaceis,
     fragrantissimis.

     VERONICA with leaves lance-shaped, opposite, alternate, and
     toothed. Flowers grow in spikes from the axillæ of the leaves.
     Blossoms small, of a pale violet colour, and very fragrant.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. A blossom spread open.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal.


This new species of Veronica was communicated to us by A. B. Lambert,
esq. It is a native of Botany Bay on the banks of the Derwent, and was
sent over by one of the settlers. The abundance and agreeable fragrance
of its flowers render it deserving a place in any collection.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXXXII.

PROTEA HUMIFLORA.

_Low-flowering Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 4-fida, seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, petalis infra
     apices insertæ. Calyx proprius, nullus. Semina solitaria.

     BLOSSOM four-cleft, or of four petals. Tips linear, inserted into
     the petals below the points. Cup proper, none. Seeds solitary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PROTEA foliis lanceolatis: ramis plurimis adscendentibus: floribus
     confertis, procumbentibus.

     Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

     PROTEA with lance-shaped leaves, with many ascending branches.
     Flowers crowded together, and lying on the ground.

     Native of the Cape of Good Hope.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A flower complete.
    2. Seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.


Of this perfectly new species of Protea we have represented the entire
plant, just as we found it growing in the conservatory of G. Hibbert,
esq., where it has flowered for the first time in this country. In the
flowers it resembles the P. cordata, in its foliage the P. canaliculata,
allied to each and yet removed from both. The procumbent situation of
its crowded blossoms gives a singularity to its appearance, and
altogether it is certainly a very interesting species. It should be
planted in a light loamy soil, and kept in an airy part of the
green-house.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXXXIII.

CACTUS COCCINELLIFER.

_Cochineal Torch Thistle._


CLASS XII. ORDER I.

_ICOSANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ About twenty Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX monophyllus, superus, imbricatus. Corolla multiplex. Bacca
     monolocularis, polysperma.

     EMPALEMENT one-leafed, above, tiled. Blossom of many folds. Berry
     of one loculament, many-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     CACTUS prolifero-articulatus: articulis ovato-oblongis,
     sub-inermibus.

     Habitat in Mexico.

     Tuna cochenillifera.--_Dill. Elth. tab. 297._

     CEREUS proliferous-jointed. Joints are of an ovate and oblong form,
     and nearly unarmed.

     Native of Mexico.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A flower cut open.
    2. The same shown from the outer side.
    3. A longitudinal section of the seed-bud.
    4. The cochineal insect as retailed in the shops.
    5. The same shown from the under side.
    6. A larger and darker sort.
    7. The same shown from the under side and magnified.


_Cactus coccinellifer_ is a native of Mexico, where the principal
culture of cochineal is situated, under the torrid zone, where little or
no rain falls during half the year (from the beginning of October to
about the end of March); as rain destroys the insects, and is injurious
to the plants. The dryer the soil is the better they succeed, as their
roots are very impatient of water. Although the insects are found
naturally upon the plant in those climates, the cultivators, we are
informed, always stock their young plantations with insects of their own
rearing, which are larger and finer than the wild sort, and give a more
brilliant colour. These they breed under sheds in the rainy season; and,
when the spring commences, always fresh stock their plantations,
scattering a few breeding insects upon each plant, and in a few days the
surface appears speckled over with them, each bringing about 300 at a
birth. In two months after they begin to collect, by scraping the
insects from the bark with the blunt edge of a knife; nor need they any
other preparation than immersion for half a minute in boiling water,
which is done by dipping them in a kind of sieve, and afterwards drying
them in the sun, or by a common fire. Three collections in this manner
are generally made in six months; fresh breeding insects being always
replaced upon the plants after gathering. Other species of Cacti also
breed the insects; but this is always preferred, as a man can gather
from the _coccinellifer_ ten pounds a day, while from the _Tuna_,
_Opuntia_, and other thorny species, he could not gather two ounces. The
plants are generally placed in lines from north to south, that both
sides may have the benefit of the sun; and they consider them fit to
bear insects at the age of 18 months. Although it is neither a new nor a
rare plant, yet as an interesting one, and rarely seen in blossom in
England, we presume it will be acceptable to our readers; nor is there
any tolerable figure of it which we have seen, unless that of Dillenius
in the Hortus Elthamensis, which is not in every body’s hands. Our
drawing was made in July 1808, at the Countess de Vandes' collection at
Bayswater.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXXXIV.

JUNIPERUS DAURICA.

_Daurian Juniper._


CLASS XXII. ORDER XIII.

_DIŒCIA MONADELPHIA._ Chives and Pointals on different Plants.
Monadelphous.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

* _Masculi flores._

     AMENTUM ovatum. Calyx squamosus. Corolla nulla. Stamina 3.

* _Fœminei flores._

     CALYX 3-partitus. Petala 3. Bacca 3-sperma, tubulata, tuberculata.
     Calyx inæqualis.

* _Male flowers._

     CATKIN egg-shaped. Empalement squamous. Blossom none. Chives 3.

* _Female flowers._

     EMPALEMENT 3-parted. Petals 3. Shaft 3. Berry 3-seeded, hollowed,
     and a little swelled. Cup unequal.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     JUNIPERUS foliis oppositis, acutis, imbricatis, decurrentibus,
     passim patulis, subulatis.

     _Pallas’s Flora Rossica_, vol. 2. p. 13. tab. 55.

     JUNIPER with opposite leaves, acute, imbricated, and decurrent,
     here and there spreading, and awl-shaped.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A female flower magnified.
2. Seed-bud and pointals, magnified.
3. A berry.
4. The same cut in two, with a seed detached.


The plant here figured is from the arboretum of the Marquis of Blandford
at White Knights, where we first noticed it in 1806, growing in the
greatest perfection, and bearing abundance of fruit, which it still
continues to do annually; and being a finer species than any we before
possessed, is an interesting addition to our collections of hardy
evergreens. It agrees perfectly with the figure and description in the
Flora Rossica, and also with the original specimen in the Pallasian
Herbarium (now in the possession of A. B. Lambert, esq.)

The plant from which our figure was taken is above twelve feet high, and
wide in proportion. The male plant we have not seen. Gmelin informs us
(in his History of the Plants of Siberia) that in the town of Janisca
the Cossacks burn the twigs of this plant to fumigate those who are
afflicted with obscure diseases, or those which they superstitiously
suppose to be excited by devils, of whose agency they are extremely
credulous, and whom they believe to be pacified with smoke and hideous
noises, as being congenial to their own nature.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXXXV.

TROPÆOLUM PINNATUM.

_Winged Nasturtium._


CLASS VIII. ORDER I.

_OCTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Eight Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 1-phyllus, calcaratus. Petala 4-5, inæqualia. Nuces 3,
     coriaceæ.

     EMPALEMENT one-leafed, spurred. Petals 4 or 5, unequal. Kernels 3,
     coriaceous.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     TROPÆOLUM foliis sub-peltatis: lobis obtusis, inæqualibus: floribus
     pinnatis: petalis quinque, cuneatis, apice dentatis.

     NASTURTIUM with leaves nearly shield-shaped. Lobes obtuse, and
     unequal. Flowers winged. Petals 5, wedge-shaped, and toothed at the
     end.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A flower spread open.
2. Seed-bud, chives, and pointal.
3. Seed-bud and pointal.


This nondescript and beautiful species of Nasturtium we met with in the
select collection of the Countess de Vandes at Bayswater. Our figure
represents the entire plant; but by whom introduced, or whence a native,
we have not been able to learn. It appears to succeed well with the
treatment usual to other Tropæolums; and, if it should seed with us,
will no doubt be abundantly cultivated for the brilliance of its elegant
little blossoms. It flowers during the summer months.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXXXVI.

PROTEA ABROTANIFOLIA, _minor_.

_Small Southernwood-leaved Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 4-fida, seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, petalis infra
     apices insertæ. Calyx proprius, nullus. Semina solitaria.

     BLOSSOM four-cleft, or of four petals. Tips linear, inserted into
     the petals below the points. Cup proper, none. Seeds solitary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PROTEA foliis tri-furcatis, filiformibus, acutis: floribus parvis,
     ramos terminantibus in umbellis confertis.

     Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

     PROTEA with leaves three-forked, thread-shaped, and pointed.
     Flowers small, and terminate the branches in crowded umbels.

     Native of the Cape of Good Hope.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A leaf.
2. A bract.
3. A flower, one tip magnified.
4. Seed-bud and pointal.


Throughout this small divided-leaved section of the genus Protea there
is a similarity of appearance in the foliage, that makes the specific
differences appear less distinct than they really are. The
small-flowered species is a compact bushy little shrub, about fourteen
inches high, and nearly the same in width, requiring a light sandy loam,
free access of air, and a little attention to preserve it from the
partial humidity of the atmosphere.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXXXVII.

ORIGANUM TOURNEFORTII.

_Tournefort’s Origanum._


CLASS XIV. ORDER I.

_DIDYNAMIA GYMNOSPERMIA._ Two Chives longer. Seeds naked.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     STROBILUS tetragonus, spicatus, calyces colligens. Corollæ labium
     superius erectum: inferius 3-partitum: laciniis æqualibus.

     HEAD of flowers four-sided, like ears of corn, containing the cups.
     The upper lip of the blossom is upright: the lower is three-parted,
     in equal segments.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     ORIGANUM spicis tetragonis: bracteis sub-rotundis, maximis: foliis
     geminis, oppositis, alternis, cordatis, punctatis, glaucis.

     Habitat in Magna Græcia.

     ORIGANUM with a four-sided spike: floral leaves nearly round, and
     large. Leaves by pairs, opposite and alternate, heart-shaped,
     dotted, and glaucous.

     Native of Greece.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A flower.
2. The same spread without the cup.
3. Seed-bud and pointal.


This species of Origanum was first discovered by Tournefort, who, in his
travels in the Levant, describes it as one of the rarest plants in all
the Archipelago; native of Amorgos, and only to be found in the clefts
or rents of a hideous rock that overhangs the sea. At the bottom of this
rock stands a convent of the Virgin, a large house resembling a chest of
drawers, and to which there is no entrance but by a ladder of a dozen
wooden steps through a small opening in one of the corners, the door of
which is covered with iron plates. This frightful promontory is
naturally perpendicular, and said to exceed in height that of La Sainte
Baume in Provence.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXXXVIII.

VANILLA PLANIFOLIA.

_Flat-leaved Vanilla._


CLASS XX. ORDER I.

_GYNANDRIA DIANDRIA._ Chives on the Pointals. Two Chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA pentapetala. Labellum basi sub-cucullatum, ecalcaratum.
     Anthera opercularis, decidua. Capsula siliquæformis, carnosa.

     BLOSSOM of five petals. Lip of the nectary nearly cowl-shaped, and
     without any spur. Anthers covered, at last falling off. Fruit a
     long fleshy pod.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     VANILLA foliis ovato-lanceolatis acuminatis obliquis, obsolete
     striatis, nitidis: petalis sublanceolatis, incurvis, obtusis.

     VANILLA with oval-lanced, oblique pointed leaves, which are faintly
     streaked, and shining; and the petals of the blossom somewhat
     lance-shaped, blunt, and curved inwards.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The nectarium spread open.
2. The chives and pointal.


Vanilla flore albo, fructu breviori corallino, of Plumier’s unpublished
drawings. The botanical history of this plant is curious. It was
published by Plumier in the year 1703, as a third species of Vanilla, as
we have ascertained by a copy of his original drawing in the collection
of A. B. Lambert, esq. but unnoticed by Linnæus or any of his editors.
In the Paradisus Londinensis it has been mistaken for Plumier’s first
species, the Epidendrum Vanilla of Linnæus, (Vanilla aromatica of Swartz
and Willdenow,) of which we have three original figures: Catesby’s, in
his History of Carolina, vol. iii. tab. 7.; Madam Merian’s, and
Plumier’s own drawing published by Burman; all of them totally unlike
it. No two plants can be more specifically distinct, and we have seldom
seen two species of one genus so different in the blossoms.

Vanilla planifolia is an exceedingly ornamental and as yet a scarce
species, and runs to many feet in length, throwing out simple tendrils
from the axils of the leaves. The finest specimen in England, and the
only one that has blossomed, is in the choice collection of the Right
Hon. Charles Greville, at Paddington, from which our drawing was taken.
We are informed that it is a native of the West Indies, and was
introduced to this country by the Marquis of Blandford.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXXXIX.

CALYCANTHUS FERTILIS.

_Fruitful Allspice._


CLASS XII. ORDER VIII.

_ICOSANDRIA POLYGYNIA._ Twenty Chives. Many Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX imbricatus: foliolis coloratis. Corolla nulla. Styli plurimi.
     Stigmata glandulosa. Semina plurima, intra calycis partem
     succulentam.

     EMPALEMENT tiled: leaflets coloured. Blossom none. Shafts many.
     Summits glandular. Seeds many, within the fleshy part of the cup.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     CALYCANTHUS ramis virgatis, sub-erectis: foliis ovato-lanceolatis,
     acuminatis: floribus fertilibus.

     Habitat in Americâ Boreali.

     CALYCANTHUS with twiggy branches nearly upright. Leaves ovately
     lance-shaped, and pointed. Flowers fertile.

     Native of North America.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A flower divested of the leaflets of the cup.
2. The same cut open, to show the seeds.


This fruitful species of Calycanthus has not yet been figured by any
author we know of, but has been described by two: first by Walter, in
his Flora Caroliniana, under the title of C. fertilis; and afterwards by
Michaux, in his Flora Boreali-Americana, under the appellation of C.
ferax, synonymous appellations equally good: and we see no reason why it
should have been altered from fertilis, if even for the better, unless
that had been a very bad specific title. It is a native of the high
mountains of Carolina, in North America, and was introduced by Mr. Lyons
in 1807. Our figure is from a plant in the collection of the Marquis of
Blandford.



     _Erratum._--In our last Number, Pl. DXXXVII, the description of
     Origanum Tournefortii (in the hurry too often attendant upon
     periodical publications) was left unfinished. The most necessary
     information omitted, is, that it is a hardy green-house shrub; and
     fine living specimens of it were communicated to us by A. B.
     Lambert, esq. who received it from the Royal Gardens at Kew, to
     which it was introduced by the late Dr. Sibthorpe in 1788.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXL.

MESEMBRYANTHEMUM HETEROPHYLLUM.

_Various-leaved Mesembryanthemum._


CLASS XII. ORDER V.

_ICOSANDRIA PENTAGYNIA._ Twenty Chives. Five Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 4-5-fidus. Petala numerosa, linearia, basi cohærentia.
     Capsula carnosa, infera, polysperma.

     EMPALEMENT 4-5-cleft. Petals numerous, linear, and united at the
     base. Fruit fleshy, below, many-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     MESEMBRYANTHEMUM octogynum, caulescens: foliis sub-semiteretibus,
     elongatis, obliquis, nitidis, basi connatis: apicibus vel
     aduncorostratis vel ancipitibus, integris, obtusis.

     Habitat in Promontorio Bonæ Spei.

     MESEMBRYANTHEMUM eight-styled, with a stem, and leaves nearly
     half-round, elongated, oblique, shining, and united at the base,
     with the points either like a hooked bill, or two-edged, entire,
     and blunt.

     Native of the Cape of Good Hope.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A flower divested of the petals cut open.
2. Seed-buds and pointals, a summit magnified.
3. A dry capsule.
4. The capsule as it appears when half expanded in water.
5. The same when fully expanded.


Of this fine Mesembryanthemum we have found no figure nor description.
It is most allied to M. difforme, so well illustrated by Dillenius, and
figured before by Plukenet; but the figure of Miller, _tab._ 126. _fig._
2. quoted for the same plant in the four last editions of the _Species
Plantarum_, is certainly M. dolabriforme, as the author himself says,
although his editor here has not stuck close to his text. M.
heterophyllum is very distinct from either, is a free growing species,
and flowers from June to September, the blossom open early in the
morning, and shut in the afternoon. It is propagated both by seeds and
parting the roots. The fruit is divided into eight loculaments for the
seed, separated longitudinally by double elastic partitions, which are
reflected above, so that the edges come in contact together and cover
the seeds. Eight elastic valves attached to the margin of the fruit, and
adhering firmly to the part containing the seeds, and to one another
until mature, again enclose these. Two cartilaginous coloured bodies,
jointed near the base, and arising from the outer edge of the
partitions, are prominent upon the interior of each of those valves,
which have their edges always more or less reflected to facilitate the
entrance of moisture to the seeds, above which they continue to lie
close so long as the atmosphere continues dry: but, when it rains, or
water is poured upon them, it enters by the openings between the valves,
and is imbibed by the receptacles of the seeds and cartilaginous
partitions, which presently become much dilated, and the diameter of the
fruit is considerably increased. The upper valves also by this extension
are drawn outwards, and being pressed at the same time by the edges of
the partitions, resting against the elastic rigid bodies on their
interior surface, gradually rise to be perpendicular upon the margin,
when the fruit somewhat resembles a little cup with a Vandyke edge; but
this is of short duration, as the less elastic and hygrometrical
exterior of the valves (for their interior parts imbibe water and dilate
rapidly) soon draws them backwards into the form of a star or
polypetalous flower, with colours as vivid as if really vegetating. The
edges of the partitions now become more erect, leaving the seeds
uncovered; and the water being led towards the centre by channels in the
valves, and retained by an elevated margin, the seeds are floated out of
their cells. The fruit when dry, again contracts as before, and the
experiment may be repeated _ad libitum_. What a wonderful œconomy of
Nature to produce the seeds just at the moment proper for their
germination, and preventing them until that time from falling on the
parched sands and rocks upon which those plants vegetate! In some
plants, natives of cold regions, where seeds are in danger of perishing
by moisture, and there is seldom sufficient warmth for their vegetation,
an œconomy the direct reverse takes place. The cones of pines, being
most hygrometrical externally, close firmly in moisture, and expand only
in dry heat! The singular qualities of the fruits of Mesembryanthema, we
find first mentioned by Dillenius--_see his Hortus Elthamensis, vol._
ii. _p._ 237. It has since been noticed by Dr. Sims, who has described
the fruit M. pinnatifidum in the _Medical Journal_ for 1799, and also by
Mr. Konig in the _Annals of Botany_, but we believe no elucidation of
the phenomenon has been given before. Dr. Hagen, a German, who possessed
the fruits of three species without knowing what they were, imagined
they were the whole plants, and described them as a new and
extraordinary reviviscent genus in Cryptogamia. Others have taken them
for the Rose of Jericho, which is not a fruit, but a plant. The fruits
of most Mesembryanthema exhibit the same metamorphosis, but with great
variety. M. hispidum has the upper valves double, the inner membrane
beautifully transparent. The fruit of this perfectly ripened, if put
into tepid water, will fly open as if with a spring. We have made
experiments with the fruits of M. latum, scalpratum, cordatum, and
pugioniforme, all of which are very fine.

Our specimen is from the collection of A. B. Lambert, esq.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXLI.

PROTEA CONIFERA.

_Cone-bearing Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 4-fida, seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, petalis infra
     apices insertæ. Calyx proprius, nullus. Semina solitaria.

     BLOSSOM four-cleft, or of four petals. Tips linear, inserted into
     the petals below the points. Cup proper, none. Seeds solitary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PROTEA foliis acinaciformibus, glabris, callosis: floribus in
     capitulis terminalibus, pallide luteis: involucro patente, late
     lanceolato, concolore.

     PROTEA with scimitar-shaped leaves, smooth and hard. Flowers grow
     in terminal heads of a pale yellow colour: the involucrum is
     spreading, broadly lance-shaped, and the same colour as the
     blossoms.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A flower.
2. A chive magnified.
3. Seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.


Our figure represents part of a plant in the collection of G. Hibbert,
esq. in the year 1803, and the smaller specimen a branch from the same
plant in 1807. So considerable a latitude of growth is certainly
deserving notice, as, upon a slight examination, they might easily be
mistaken for distinct species. In the first year of its inflorescence
its appearance is uninteresting; but in a year or two afterwards it
displays such an abundance of bloom, that it then becomes a very
ornamental little shrub. It is a Cape species, and requires no
particular treatment more than what is common to the generality of this
extensive family.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXLII.

RUELLIA INFUNDIBULIFORMIS.

_Funnel-flowered Ruellia._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 5-partitus. Corolla monopetala, limbo 5-lobo, inæquali.
     Stamina biconjugata. Stylus filiformis. Stigma bifidum. Capsula
     dissepimentis dentatis, elasticis, dehiscentibus. Semina pauca.

     EMPALEMENT 5-parted. Blossom one petal: border 5-lobed, unequal.
     Chives by pairs. Shaft thread-shaped. Summit two-cleft. Capsule
     with the partitions toothed, elastic, and splitting. Seeds few.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     RUELLIA foliis oppositis, alternis, lanceolatis, undulatis,
     costatis, lucidis: floribus in spicis terminalibus, confertis.
     Corolla infundibuliformis: laciniis limbi quinquefidis, crenatis,
     patentibus, rugosis, coccineis, ad basin luteis.

     RUELLIA with opposite alternate leaves, lance-shaped, waved,
     ribbed, and shining. Flowers grow in terminal spikes, crowded
     together. Blossom funnel-shaped: segments of the border five-cleft
     and notched, spreading, wrinkled, of a scarlet colour, and yellow
     at the base.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The empalement.
2. A blossom spread open.
3. Seed-bud and pointal.


Few of the small plants that adorn the stove are superior in beauty to
this elegant little shrub, whose successive bloom continues from June
till January. It is the Justicia infundibuliformis of Linnæus, but must,
according to his own system, be removed to the class Tetrandria. We have
seen it in many collections in great luxuriance. It is a native of the
East Indies, and was introduced by the Right Hon. C. Greville, four or
five years ago. As yet, we believe, it has not perfected its seed with
us, but propagates freely by cuttings.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXLIII.

PROTEA SPECIOSA PATENS.

_Spreading Showy Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 4-fida, seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, petalis infra
     apices insertæ. Calyx proprius, nullus. Semina solitaria.

     BLOSSOM four-cleft, or of four petals. Tips linear, inserted into
     the petals below the points. Cup proper, none. Seeds solitary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PROTEA foliis lanceolatis, undulatis, pilosis: squamis calycinis
     rotundato-ovatis, marginibus fimbriatis nigricantibus. Caulis
     patens.

     Habitat in Caput Bonæ Spei.

     PROTEA with lance-shaped leaves, waved and hairy. Scales of the
     empalement roundedly oval, with fringed margins of a black brown
     colour. Stem spreading.

     Native of the Cape of Good Hope.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A flower, one tip magnified.
2. Seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.


This fine fringed Protea in the foliage is very nearly allied to the P.
speciosa, but the flower is more spread open than any of that section we
have as yet seen. It is naturally so averse to grow upright, that it is
with difficulty prevented from bending downwards, which the branches
always do till they are tied up. In this particular it very much
resembles the P. repens, and, if left at liberty, would no doubt, like
that species, creep or spread itself about on the earth. Our figure was
made from a plant lately in the conservatory of G. H. Hibbert, esq., but
recently consigned to J. Knight, his botanic gardener, who has commenced
nurseryman in the King’s Road, Chelsea, with the whole of that well
known valuable collection.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXLIV.

MIMOSA PUDICA.

_Bashful Mimosa._


CLASS XXIII. ORDER I.

_POLYGAMIA MONŒCIA._ Various Dispositions upon one Plant.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     HERMAPH. Calyx 5-dentatus. Corolla 5-fida. Stamina 5, sive plura.
     Pistillum 1. Legumen.

     MASCUL. Calyx 5-dentatus. Corolla 5-fida. Stamina 4, 5, 10, sive
     plura.

     HERMAPH. Empalement 5-toothed. Blossom five-cleft. Chives 5, or
     more. Pointal 1. A pod.

     MALE. Empalement 5-toothed. Blossom 5-cleft. Chives 4, 5, 10, or
     more.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     MIMOSA foliis sensitivis palmato-pinnatis, pinnulis, multijugis.
     Caulis pilosus, aculeis paucis instructus. Petioli et pedunculi
     pilosi. Fructus echinatus.

     Habitat in Brasiliâ.

     MIMOSA with sensitive leaves palmately winged, the pinnulæ
     many-paired. Stem hairy, and furnished with a few prickles.
     Petioles and peduncles hairy. Fruit prickly.

     Native of the Brazils.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A flower.
2. A chive magnified.
3. Seed-bud and pointal magnified.
4. The ripe capsule, with a seed detached.


Five distinct genera were once included under the generic title of
Mimosa, but separated by Willdenow into 102 Acacias, 58 Ingas, 9
Desmanthuses, 3 Shrankias, and 32 Mimosas. This susceptible species of
Mimosa is an old inhabitant of the stove, and well known to cultivators
by the appellation of the Sensitive Plant (but not to be confounded with
the M. sensitiva, a very different species). Although this Mimosa is
neither new nor rare, it is nevertheless very interesting, and has not
hitherto made its appearance in any modern publication; nor is there any
coloured figure of it extant. Our representation of it, therefore, is in
part a novelty, however old and familiar the plant itself may be.
According to the observations of Linnæus, it opens or expands its
foliage at three in the morning, and closes it about six in the evening.
Its singular quality of shrinking from the touch is supposed to be owing
to its being strongly saturated with oxygen gas, which it disengages
upon the slightest provocation, and its place for a short time is
supplied by the atmospheric air; which retiring, the leaves again resume
their former appearance, and so remain expanded till the evening, unless
disturbed by design or accident; for the rude approach of the common air
disorganises its foliage.

The leaf is mostly composed of four divisions, but sometimes five and
six may be found in plants of a luxuriant growth. Each division is
supplied with numerous little leaflets, in pairs of an oblong form, with
a small yellow gland at their base, which when carefully touched will
close up separately, and leave the surrounding leaflets undisturbed. It
may be considered either as an annual or a biennial, dying after
ripening its seeds. Our drawing was made from fine plants in the
collection of J. Vere, esq.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXLV.

PROTEA ABROTANIFOLIA, _odorata_.

_Sweet-scented Southernwood-leaved Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 4-fida, seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, petalis infra
     apices insertæ. Calyx proprius, nullus. Semina solitaria.

     BLOSSOM four-cleft, or of four petals. Tips linear, inserted into
     the petals below the points. Cup proper, none. Seeds solitary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PROTEA foliis multifidis, filiformibus, acutis, pilosis: floribus
     in capitulis terminalibus, lucidis, odoratis.

     Habitat in Caput Bonæ Spei.

     PROTEA with many-cleft leaves, thread-shaped, pointed, and hairy:
     flowers grow in terminal heads, shining, and sweet-scented.

     Native of the Cape of Good Hope.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A flower, one tip magnified.
2. Seed-bud and pointal.


This species of Protea well deserves a place in any collection, as, in
addition to its light and graceful appearance, it is possessed of a most
agreeable fragrance. There is a variation of it with white flowers, but
exactly the same in every other particular. It remains a considerable
time in bloom, but not many umbels of flowers are expanded at the same
time. We have seen it in several collections. It is a Cape species, and
appears to be of easy culture.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXLVI.

MONARDA PUNCTATA.

_Dotted-flowered Monarda._


CLASS II. ORDER I.

_DIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Two Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX tubulosus, quinque-dentatus. Corolla ringens, labio superiore
     lineari, filamenta involvente.

     EMPALEMENT tubular, five-toothed. Blossom gaping: the upper lip
     linear, and enfolding the threads.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     MONARDA foliis lanceolatis, dentatis, minutè punctatis: floribus
     verticillatis, flavis, rubro punctatis: foliis involucri
     ovato-lanceolatis, glabris, incarnatis.

     Habitat in Americâ Boreali.

     MONARDA with lance-shaped leaves, toothed, and minutely dotted.
     Flowers grow in whorls, are of a yellow colour, and dotted with
     red: the involucrate leaves are ovately lance-shaped, smooth, and
     flesh-coloured.

     Native of North America.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A flower.
2. A blossom spread open, one tip magnified.
3. Seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.
4. Seed-bud magnified.


The only figure of the Monarda punctata we have seen is an uncoloured
one in Plukenet’s Phytographia. It is a perfectly new species to the
garden, and the only Monarda with yellow flowers at present known. Its
specific title is particularly applicable to its bloom, as all the
species yet enumerated are more or less punctured in the foliage, some
so minutely as scarcely to be perceived without the aid of a magnifier.
It is a native of Virginia in North America, but by whom introduced we
have not been able to learn. Our drawing was made from plants in the
nursery of Messrs. Whitley and Brames, who raised it from seed last
year, 1807; but it did not flower till the latter part of the present
summer. It is a hardy perennial, and certainly a handsome addition to
the genus.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXLVII.

PASSIFLORA PERFOLIATA.

_Perfoliate-leaved Passion-flower._


CLASS XX. ORDER V.

_GYNANDRIA PENTANDRIA._ Chives on the Pointal. Five Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     TRIGYNA. Calyx 5-phyllus. Petala 5. Nectarium corona. Bacca
     pedicellata.

     THREE Styles. Cup 5-leaved. Petals 5. Honey-cup forming a crown.
     Berry standing on a footstalk.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PASSIFLORA foliis bilobis: lobis oblongis, divaricatis, subtus
     punctatis, glaucis: laciniis calycinis linearibus.

     Habitat in Caribbæis.

     _Jacquin’s Hort. Schœn. vol. 2. tab. 182._

     PASSION-FLOWER with leaves two-lobed: lobes oblong and straddling,
     dotted beneath, and glaucous: segments of the cup linear.

     Native of the Caribbee Islands.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A flower spread open.


The most graceful ornament to the hot-stove is the elegant and favourite
genus Passiflora, whose branches meandering against the interior sides
of the building adorn it to the greatest advantage. From a branch of the
Passiflora perfoliata thus situated in the collection of the Countess de
Vandes our drawing was taken. The only coloured figure of it we have
seen in the Hortus Schœnbrunnensis of Jacquin. It flowers in great
luxuriance during the months of July and August.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXLVIII.

CUCUMIS DUDAIM.

_Sweet-scented Melon._


CLASS XXI. ORDER VIII.

_MONŒCIA MONADELPHIA._ Chives and Pointals separate. One Brotherhood.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

_Masculini flores._

     CALYX 5-dentatus. Corolla 5-partita. Filamenta 3.

_Fœminei flores._

     CALYX 5-dentatus. Corolla 5-partita. Pistillum 3-fidum.

_Male flowers._

     EMPALEMENT 5-toothed. Blossom 5-parted. Filaments 3.

_Female flowers._

     EMPALEMENT 5-toothed. Blossom 3-parted. Pointal 3-cleft.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     CUCUMIS foliorum angulis rotundatis, dentatis, bispidis: fructu
     sphærico, aurantio, variegato, odoratissimo.

     MELON with leaves angular, rounded, toothed, and hispid: fruit
     spherical, of a gold colour, variegated, and very sweet-scented.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A blossom spread open.
2. A chive magnified.
3. Empalement, seed-bud, and pointal.
4. A horizontal section of the fruit.
5. A female flower spread open.


This curious little species of Melon, although no new introduction to
the English gardens, is but rarely met with, yet well deserves a place
in every curious collection for the beauty and fragrance of its fruit;
which, when cut before quite ripe, will continue fragrant nearly a
fortnight. It is however only to be valued for its odour and beauty, the
flavour being insipid. It is said to have been first introduced by Lord
Petre, who sent the seeds from Morocco to Peter Collinson, F.R.S. It is
also cultivated in Persia, and a figure of the fruit taken there is
given in Gmelin’s Travels, vol. iii. tab. 49. fig. 6. Its Hebrew
appellation of Dudaim seems to have been bestowed by Linnæus, from the
fantastical idea that it was the fruit mentioned in the Bible by the
name of mandrake, with which Jacob’s neglected wife purchased her
husband’s favours for one night of her rival. Another plant with
perennial roots descending 6 or 8 feet into the earth, was taken be his
pupil Hasselquist (sent to the East on purpose to illustrate the natural
history of that country) for the celebrated Dudaim;--Which is the right
one, let critics in Hebrew decide! The _Melo Ægypticus minor_ of
Tournefort, or Ægyptian Abdelavi, which Linnæus supposed to be the same
as the _Melo aurantii figura odoratissimus_ of Dillenius, and might
partly have occasioned the name, is a very different species. Indeed the
claim of our plant to Ægyptian origin seems doubtful, but we would
reluctantly change a name that has been applied for more than half a
century. Our specimens are from the collection of A. B. Lambert, esq.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXLIX.

PASCALIA GLAUCA.

_Glaucous-leaved Pascalia._


CLASS XIX. ORDER II.

_SYNGENESIA POLYGAMIA SUPERFLUA._ Tips united. Superfluous Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     RECEPTACULUM paleaceum.

     SEMINA drupacea. Pappus margine dentatus. Calyx imbricatus.

     RECEPTACLE chaffy.

     SEEDS a ripe berry. Down toothed at the edge. Empalement tiled.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PASCALIA foliis oppositis, tri-nervibus, glaucis patentibusque;
     inferiora lato-lanceolatis, denticulatis, acutis, sæpius
     integerrimis: floribus terminalibus, solitariis: corolla flava.

     Habitat in regno Chilensi.

     _Pascalia glauca Ortegæ Nov. rar. plant, tab. 4._

     PASCALIA with opposite leaves, three-nerved, glaucous and
     spreading; the lower ones are broadly lance-shaped, toothed, and
     pointed, but often entire: flowers terminal and solitary: blossom
     yellow.

     Native of the Kingdom of Chili.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The empalement and receptacle.
2. A floret of the ray.
3. A floret of the disk, summit magnified.
4. Seed-bud and pointal.


The only figure of this syngenesious plant is in the new and rare plants
of Ortega, who named it after D. Didaco Pascal, a Spanish physician. It
is the only species of the genus yet known, and a fine living specimen
of it was communicated to us by Mr. Lambert, who raised it from seed
sent to him from Madrid by the late Cavanilles. It is perfectly hardy,
and the roots so durable and spreading that they are not easily
eradicated. It does not however bloom with equal facility, but seems to
want a warmer sun to aid its flowers in their expansion.

[Illustration]




PLATE DL.

HERMANNIA FLAMMEA.

_Flame-coloured Hermannia._


CLASS XVI. ORDER V.

_MONADELPHIA PENTAGYNIA._ One Brotherhood. Five Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX simplex, 5-fidus. Petala 5, spiraliter cucullata. Filamenta
     lanceolata. Styli 5. Capsula 5-locularis, polysperma.

     EMPALEMENT simple, 5-cleft. Petals 5, spiral and hooded. Filaments
     lance-shaped. Shafts 5. Capsule 5-celled, many-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     HERMANNIA foliis cuneiformibus, apice dentatis: floribus ramos
     terminantibus, spicatis, laxis.

     Habitat in Caput Bonæ Spei.

     _Hermannia flammea, Jacq. Hort. Schœn. vol. i. tab. 129._

     HERMANNIA with wedge-shaped leaves, toothed at the end. Flowers
     terminate the branches in loose spikes.

     Native of the Cape of Good Hope.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The empalement
2. A petal.
3. The chives and pointal.
4. A chive magnified.
5. Seed-bud and pointal magnified.
6. A transverse section of the seed-bud magnified.


This species of Hermannia is figured in the Hortus Schœnbrunnensis of
Jacquin. We have adopted his specific title of flammea, but think the
plant would have been better marked by the appellation of ignescens;
particularly as we have seen it in bloom with scarcely any vestige of
yellow or flame colour on the petals, but always of a fine fiery red
colour. It is a very handsome hardy green-house shrub, and flowers from
June till January.

Our drawing was made from a plant in the nursery of Mr. Knight, King’s
Road, Chelsea.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLI.

LOPEZIA CORONATA.

_Coronet-flowering Lopezia._


CLASS I. ORDER I.

_MONANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ One Chive. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 4-phyllus. Corolla 5-petala, inæqualis. Capsula 4-locularis,
     4-valvis, polysperma.

     EMPALEMENT 4-leaved. Blossom 5-petaled, unequal. Capsule 4-celled,
     4-valved, many seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     LOPEZIA ramis longis, simplicibus, adscendentibus: foliis
     sub-ovatis, acutis, dentatis, lucidis: petiolis decurrentibus:
     floribus axillaribus, in umbellis terminalibus.

     LOPEZIA with long, simple, ascending branches. Leaves nearly ovate,
     pointed, toothed, and shining, with decurrent footstalks. Flowers
     growing from the axillæ of the leaves, and terminate the branches
     in umbels.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The empalement.
2. The chives and pointal, with the lower petal magnified.
3. The capsule cut transversely.
4. A seed.


The Lopezia coronata is a hardy little annual, of recent introduction,
and a lively addition to this short genus, which at present contains but
two species besides the one now figured. We have seen them all three in
fine bloom in several collections. Our figure represents a branch from a
plant in the conservatory of the Countess de Vandes, where we observed
the side petals of many of the flowers of a pure white at the ends,
which gave them a very singular and different appearance from plants of
the same description we have seen elsewhere: and Mr. Fordyce the botanic
gardener informs me it was always the character of his plant, after it
had been some time in flower, for the large petals to acquire a white
appearance, as if bleached, previous to their going out of bloom. We
have therefore left one flower in that state in our specimen, to
delineate the variation incidental to the plant from which our figure
was taken.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLII.

HYPERICUM VIRGINICUM.

_Virginia Hypericum._


CLASS XVIII. ORDER IV.

_POLYADELPHIA POLYANDRIA._ Many Brotherhoods. Many Males.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 5-partita. Corolla 5-petala. Filamenta multa, in 5 phalanges,
     basi connata. Capsula locularis.

     EMPALEMENT 5-parted. Blossom 5-petalled. Threads many, conjoined at
     the base, in 5 squadrons. Capsule celled.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     HYPERICUM floribus trigynis, enneandris, terminalibus; foliis
     ellipticis, obtusis, sub-cordatis, amplexicaulibus: caule herbaceo.

     HYPERICUM with flowers three-styled, nine-chived, and terminal.
     Leaves elliptic, obtuse, nearly heart-shaped, and embracing the
     stem. Stem herbaceous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The empalement.
2. A petal.
3. The chives and pointals, one tip magnified.
4. The pointals.
5. The same cut transversely and magnified.


This hardy little herbaceous plant was introduced by Mr. Lyons from
America about the year 1804. There is no figure of it extant that we
know of. Willdenow in his Species Plantarum has enumerated eighty-eight
species of Hypericum; but amongst that number three distinct genera are
certainly included. Our drawing was made from plants in the nursery of
Messrs. Whitley and Brames, who raised them from seed, and with whom
they flowered the second year. Their bloom is but of short duration, but
few flowers are open at one time; and we are inclined to think that they
will expand with more freedom and last longer in a shady situation than
when fully exposed to the solar ray.

[Illustration]




INDEX

TO THE PLANTS CONTAINED IN VOL. VIII.


Plate 493 Bignonia grandiflora                Large-flowered Bignonia                  G. H.  Shrub.    September.
      494 Scutellaria serrata                 Sawed-leaved Scutellaria                 Har.   Herb.     May.
      495 Protea corymbosa                    Corymbose-flowering Protea               G. H.  Shrub.    July.
      496 Jasminum multiflorum                Many-flowered Jasmine                    H. H.  Shrub.    All Summer.
      497 Jasminum sambac, _Var. flore pleno_ Indian Jasmine, _Full-flowered Variety_  H. H.  Shrub.    All Summer.
      498 Hibiscus pruriens                   Stinging Hibiscus                        H. H.  Shrub.    July.
      499 Ipomæa coccinea                     Scarlet Ipomæa                           H. H.  Shrub.    July.
      500 Protea mucronifolia                 Mucronate-leaved Protea                  G. H.  Shrub.    August.
      501 Hellenia Allugas                    Ceylon Hellenia                          H. H.  Shrub.    July.
      502 Lobelia surinamensis,
           _Var. flore rubro_                 Surinam Lobelia, _Red-flowered Variety_  H. H.  Shrub.    September.
      503 Nymphæa rubra                       Red-flowered Nymphæa                     H. H.  Aquatic.  August.
      504 Solanum Seaforthianum               Seaforth’s Solanum                       G. H.  Shrub.    August.
      505 Ornithogalum flavissimum            Yellow-flowered Star of Bethlehem        G. H.  Bulb.     July.
      506 Ruellia cristata                    Crested Ruellia                          H. H.  Shrub.    August.
      507 Protea abrotanifolia                Southernwood-leaved Protea               G. H.  Shrub.    August.
      508 Cactus grandiflorus                 Large-flowered Cereus                    H. H.  Shrub.    August.
      509 Gentiana fimbriata                  Fringed-flowered Gentian                 G. H.  Shrub.    July.
      510 Aspalathus globosus                 Round-flowering Aspalathus               G. H.  Shrub.    July.
      511 Solanum betaceum                    Beet-like Solanum                        G. H.  Shrub.    August.
      512 Protea pinnata                      Winged-leaved Protea                     G. H.  Shrub.    July.
      513 Cactus hexagonus                    Great Torch Thistle                      H. H.  Shrub.    August.
      514 Pæonia anomala                      Anomalous-leaved Pæony                   Har.   Shrub.    July.
      515 Cynanchum mucronatum                Mucronate-leaved Cynanchum               H. H.  Shrub.    August.
      516 Astragalus villosus                 Hairy Astragalus                         Har.   Herb.     July.
      517 Protea imbricata                    Imbricated-leaved Protea                 G. H.  Shrub.    September.
      518 Magnolia grandiflora                Large-flowered Magnolia                  Har.   Tree.     All Summer.
      519 Commersonia echinata                Bristly-fruited Commersonia              H. H.  Tree.     All Summer.
      520 Euosma albiflora                    White-flowered Euosma                    Har.   Shrub.    June.
      521 Eriospermum folioliferum            Leaflet-bearing Eriospermum              G. H.  Shrub.    August.
      522 Protea abrotanifolia hirta          Hairy Southernwood Protea                G. H.  Shrub.    August.
      523 Gorteria pavonia                    Peacock Gorteria                         G. H.  Herb.     July.
      524 Lachnæa Buxifolia                   Box-leaved Lachnæa                       G. H.  Shrub.    August.
      525 Podalyria hirsuta                   Hairy Podalyria                          G. H.  Shrub.    August.
      526 Protea cespitosa                    Turfy Protea                             G. H.  Shrub.    September.
      527 Ruellia fulgida                     Bright-flowered Ruellia                  H. H.  Shrub.    All Summer.
      528 Ornithogalum elatum                 Lofty Ornithogalum                       H. H.  Bulb.     August.
      529 Nitraria Schoberi                   Schober’s Nitraria                       Har.   Shrub.    August.
      530 Bignonia uncata                     Hooked Bignonia                          H. H.  Shrub.    August.
      531 Veronica Derwentia                  New Holland Veronica                     G. H.  Shrub.    September.
      532 Protea humiflora                    Low-flowering Protea                     G. H.  Shrub.    August.
      533 Cactus coccinellifer                Cochineal Torch Thistle                  H. H.  Shrub.    September.
      534 Juniperus Daurica                   Daurian Juniper                          Har.   Shrub.    August.
      535 Tropæolum pinnatum                  Winged Nasturtium                        G. H.  Shrub.    September.
      536 Protea abrotanifolia, minor         Small Southernwood-leaved Protea         G. H.  Shrub.    August.
      537 Origanum Tournefortii               Tournefort’s Origanum                    G. H.  Shrub.    September.
      538 Vanilla planifolia                  Flat-leaved Vanilla                      H. H.  Shrub.    September.
      539 Calycanthus fertilis                Fruitful Allspice                        G. H.  Shrub.    September.
      540 Mesembryanthemum heterophyllum      Various-leaved Mesembryanthemum          G. H.  Shrub.    September.
      541 Protea conifera                     Cone-bearing Protea                      G. H.  Shrub.    August.
      542 Ruellia infundibuliformis           Funnel-flowered Ruellia                  H. H.  Shrub.    Sum. & autumn
      543 Protea speciosa patens              Spreading Showy Protea                   G. H.  Shrub.    August.
      544 Mimosa pudica                       Bashful Mimosa                           H. H.  Shrub.    All Summer.
      545 Protea abrotanifolia odorata        Sweet-scented Southernwood-leaved P.     G. H.  Shrub.    August.
      546 Monarda punctata                    Dotted-flowered Monarda                  Har.   Herb.     Autumn.
      547 Passiflora perfoliata               Perfoliate-leaved Passion-flower         H. H.  Shrub.    September.
      548 Cucumis Dudaim                      Sweet-scented Melon                      H. H.  Shrub.    September.
      549 Pascalia glauca                     Glaucous-leaved Pascalia                 Har.   Shrub.    August.
      550 Hermannia flammea                   Flame-coloured Hermannia                 G. H.  Shrub.    Sum. & autumn.
      551 Lopezia coronata                    Coronet-flowered Lopezia                 G. H.  Shrub.    All Summer.
      552 Hypericum Virginicum                Virginia Hypericum                       Har.   Herb.     August.


ERRATA.

Plate 494 in generic character, for _os_ the mouth, read _oris_ the border.
          Nitraria Schoberi for 530, read 529.
      531 for Veronica Derwentia, read Veronica Derwentiana.





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BOTANIST'S REPOSITORY FOR NEW AND RARE PLANTS; VOL. 8 [OF 10] ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

